Date: Sat, 17 Dec 1994 18:24:18 -0800 (PST)
From: "Kevin D. Karty" <dorn@agora.rdrop.com>
Subject: Crossroads

Well, I promised I'd post the Asian cosms, and I'm still trying 
to regather the research, after I checked the stuff back intot eh 
library.  So, till then, this is another cosm sketch which I'm not sure 
if someone has posted, or if anyone is interested in.

The Crossroads

Warning - if you're a player and your GM reads this, you may wish 
to not read this post.  Reading it could ruin some of the surprise and 
fun if you're GM actually decides to use it, in a modified form or as 
presented here.

A Core Earth pocket dimension.

The Crossroads is essentially a bar - of a very unique type.  It 
is a juxtaposition of realities, where different people of different 
places meet.  It is the quintessential twilight Zone bar, except a little 
more cosmopolitan.

I don't really think I have to explaint eh Genre.  The setting is 
a mid-30's high class, but a little run down, hotel.  High class 
callgirls (and jigalos as well), Red velvet curtains, wood pannelled 
walls, a back bar with every conceivable liquor stashed there, including 
many in foreign languages that you've never heard of.  There are also 
card and pool tables set up, and air fans swirling the thick pall of 
smoke that inevitable hangs about, even if no one has lit up a cigar.

The bar tenders name is Sam, or variably Joe, or a similar name.  
he has no last name.  he wears a spotless white apron, is aging, has 
brown hair with white streaks, a semi-bald pate, and athick mustache.  
Sometimes he speaks with an accent, Irish perhaps, or gangester-talk.  
The odd thing is that everyone hears him a little different.  HTe 
characters may eventually recognize this, though it may take a little 
while for them to recognize this phenomenon.  The bartender only speaks 
english, but every character understands it as his/her own tongue - even 
simultaneously.  The only way you know he speaks english is if he asks,a 
nd he answers English.

Sam has always worked here.  This is all he does.  If asked when 
he went on shift, he answers at 5 PM.  The clock reads 11:59 and the 
hands never move.  Notably, so does every watch or timepiece in the 
place.  Sam knows how to mix _any_ drink that has ever been invented, 
whether its knowledge was passed on or not.  If you try to play a trick, 
and invent a drink he has never heard of, you might find yourself with a 
glass of a foul smelling and very strange lookign concoction.

Since the reality wars began, the bar has seen from new visitors 
- Eidenos, Tharkoldu, Aylish fairies, etc...  No one really pays them 
much attention.  If someone asks about them, they are told that they are 
just "from out of town."  Characters can talk to each other with the same 
effect as talking to Sam.

There is no violence in the Crossroads.  To even make a move is 
to invite Lou,t he bouncer, to thump you and toss you out.  Lou is 
indestructable.  He always wins fist fights, and these are the only 
fights that occur in teh bar (though natural implements, such as broken 
bottles may be used).  This is not to say weapons don't work, it's just 
that No One ever uses them.  No one ever thinks to use them in The 
Crossroads.

There is no door leading out of the Crossroads.  There is only a 
door leading to a hallway, where the rooms are.  The rooms are the same 
style of the hotel, gaudy and circa 1930's.  The rooms are always in 
order, and names are imprinted on the doors.  To leave (and characters do 
not know this), one simply falls asleep and wakes up somewhere else.  
Sometimes, one wakes up where one was dreamign about.  Sometimes, one 
wakes up "where you need to go," as Sam puts it.  To enter the 
Crossroads, one just wakes up there.  There's no way of purposefully 
going there, though some have theorized that going to a bar of similar 
nature and then using an extradimensional gate might do it.

Information about the Crossroads is highly subjective and hard to 
find.  Characters might make a Realm Lore Earth total of 15 to even have 
heard the name, 18 to know vaguely what it is, 21 to have heard of Sam or 
Joe,, more as weird people than as any special beings (later events might 
cause you to link these two personages to the barkeep and bouncer), and 
25 to know info like leaving/entering.  30 for anything really specific, 
and much the characters simply cannot know.

As far as how the Crossroads came to be, there is considerable 
speculation.  A freak reality storm in a bar somewhere...  Or maybe the 
realities invading earth have so weakened the frame of reality that it is 
starting to lose its coherency.  This has many worried...

No, teh Crossroads does not have a High Lord.  It really 
shouldn't.  Is it benevolent or malevolent?  Well, that depends on the 
character.  Characters tend to get what they deserve, though the more 
they look for something the less they seem to find it.  it's usually when 
they stop lookign that they find answers.

Sam knows a lot of information, but he rarely talks.  he can be 
pressed, but even then just hints.  If he overhears the characters 
talking about something secret or important, he might laugh, nodd his 
head, and say "Yah, that (name).  Funny guy."  Or, "Whew, nasty things, 
those (thing)."

As far as interacting with others in teh bar, characters might 
find people they actually know there, but never seem to recognize them.  
The characters might recognize them after waking up the next day, but not 
while still in teh Crossroads.  The characters just have this feeling 
they should know someone, or should dislike/like that person, but never 
figure out why.

The primary purpose of the Crossroads is to learn.  Characters 
learn thigns about themselves, which they try to hide.  If characters 
learn well, they emerge from it not just unscatheed, but rejuvenated.  If 
they learn poorly, they emerge fitful, depressed, almost suicidal.  Good 
people, in general, tend to learn.  Evil people tend not to.  The 
Crossroads is essentially a manifestation of Core Earth, and is guide by 
the very reality of Earth itself, which is semisentient.  

Reality - axioms - well, those of Earth in 1930's.  However, all 
WLs, all realities, and all tools seem to vunction here without 
disconnecting.  Why?  No one knows - perhaps a weakening in reality itself.

WLs?  Well, this is very hard.  I'm goig to propose a slew, and 
see if people can help me narrow them down.  Please, don't try to make 
this reality like the Nile Empire.  The Law of Drama has no place here.  
1930's does not necessarily equal pulp.  

Note that the bar has a lot of anachronisms - a jukebox fromt eh 
fifties, a dance floor from the 19th century, etc...  No description of 
the place from anyone who has returned ever has it identical.  Of course, 
people are hard pressed to remember anything from their visits, save 
maybe a few things Sam said which stick in their mind until they solve 
them to their satisfaction.

Law of Strangeness.

The place is just plain strange.  Weird things just happen.  
Everyone has the sense of remembering but not remembering (what's that 
damn French word I can't remember?).  Sometimes, people who the character 
remembers having talked to, or given them advice, are people the 
character later (concidentally) discovers are dead.  ("But jimmy boy 
couldn't have been there.  That's Jimmy alright, but you see, he's been 
dead Thirty years!"
Tiem fluctuations, card games where one player _always_ wins, or 
_always_ draws the same hand, or a "regular" customer who simply cannot 
be woken up.  Sometimes "bums will appear to beg, and be tossed into the 
hallway by Lou, but if the character follows the bum, they won't find 
him.  He'll be gone.


The Law of Archetypes - 

The Crossroads has a habit of being visited by archetypes - 
anthropomorphic manifestations of forces, or certain stereotypical 
people.  This begins with Sam and Lou.  Note, there is some speculation 
over wherether Sam and Lou ar in fact just archetypes or are in fact 
super-beings of some sort.  Maybe, one wonders, Sam is a tech 33 being 
with control over time and reality, hm???
The archetypes are usually not readily apparent.  Death (unlike 
in Terry Pratchett's series) does not walk around in hood, with scythe, 
etc...  Rather, he may be a doctor, trying to get drunk to wear away the 
pain fo all the people he has to "fix" or "ease."  Luck is just a gambler 
who always wins.  Justice is a gunslinger, or an FBI agent, or someone 
who always sees things done fairly.  Time is an old man or a young boy, 
and displays innumerable anachronisms, like pulling a gold pocket watch 
out of a boy's beggar's clothes.  Truth is an innocent girl with open 
eyes, who always seems to be staring directly into your soul, or perhaps 
an aged and erudite professor who constantly corrects everyth=A0 might say.  
Knowledge may masquerade as an Shakespearean fool (that is, mildly 
mentally retarded - extreme Down's syndrome, perhaps).
Tehy tend not to display powers, and whenever anyone figures out 
who they are,t hey disappear "Excuse me, I though i might get another 
drink," then dissappears in a crowd...
OK, you get the idea.  As far as powers  - maybe, but they never 
use them openly.  Just strange coincidences.

The Law of Juxtaposition

This explains the different perceptions of the place, and the 
things one finds here.  Maybe even futuristic things, or magical things.  
Perhaps the bartender can cook up magical potions, as drinks...  
Basically, everything works, and anyone could be from anywhere,and go 
anywhere.  All realities and world laws function perfectly.  Anachronisms 
are easily acepted as normal.  As well, this explains the strange 
temporal anomolies (Star Trek Talk...).  That is, meeting people from teh 
past or the future, who seem to know more about the present than they 
should.  Reality seems to have lost its frame of reference,a nd 
everything is happening simultaneously.  The potential implications of 
this stretch the ideational framework of even an Akashan.  THe paradox is 
ridiculous.
Some claim that the Crossroads is able to affect the past, but if 
so how could anyone know?  More likely, its influence is felt 
simultaneously in all frames of reference.
Note, multiple truths are all equally real, and there is a sense 
of vast and hidden power just out of reach.  As though you're just about 
to understand, and the understanding slips away.  

Additional notes - I may be compelled to exceed 4 WLs to explain 
teh Crossroads, and frankly this doesn't bother me.  I've broken so many 
rules in building the Crossroads, that what is another?
As far as getting there, I am likely to accept that The 
Crossroads chooses who goes and who doesn't - maybe a world law - and 
there is no way to force your way in.  This is not because the Crossroads 
is so powerful, even if linked to Core Earth, but rather because it is 
_lost_ int eh Infiniverse.  THERE IS ONLY ONE CROSSROADS IN ALL THE 
INFINIVERSE.  Thus, it could be anywhere, and it's even conceivable that 
characters might encounter shadow of themselves - of who they might have 
been (even so, they won't recognize this until they leave).  maybe 
shadows of their party, where one character has died and been replaced by 
another - one that one of the players almost chose to play.
Because of its uniqueness and small size, and the WLs, it is 
impossible to find, and no being has succeeded.  No, not even Ardinay, 
and no power seems able to hold or locate it.  It might be a way of 
passing in between individual universes to other universes int eh 
infiniverse.


Well, all this is wild speculation and thought spewing.  If 
anyone has additional comments on how to further define it, or perhaps 
how to remove definition which should not be there, please post.  I doubt 
the cosm could serve as more than a one act interlude in an adventure, 
and there is no such thing as "my character being from Crossroads."  I 
dislike any theme which really emphasizes the "entrapment" aspect.  That 
is another pocket dimension - "No Exit," a pseudo-French existentialist 
nightmare cosm, with tech 21, social 22, and spirit and magic of 0 to 2.  
The Crossroads is not a cosm which has a single goal - keep characters in 
and keep them board (Law of Ennui, anyone?).

OK, that's my long post for the week.  Hope people enjoy.  When I 
finish grad appl's I'll hopefully post the Asian PDs.

Kevin

