Cybertron

Date: Tue, 24 Jan 95 08:00 CST
To: masterbook
From: daniel.macch@mms.raleigh.nc.us
Subject: Transformers reality--Cybertron

Cybertron: Where Reality is More Than Meets the Eye

The Axioms of Cybertron:

Tech:  32
The extremely high tech axiom makes almost anything possible.  High speed 
interstellar travel, simultaneous galaxy wide broadcasting, and instantaneous 
teleportation are all possible.  The tech axiom is usually not used to its 
full potential.  Several planets have not advanced to its full potential and 
many have "skipped" levels without fully exploring the technology available 
at that level.  Examples of this are cyberware, biotechnology and genetic 
engineering.  Study into these skipped areas is progressing, and is much easier
due to the advanced axiom level.
The Transformers have also experimented with time travel.  They have discovered
that the history that they know is an amalgam of the results of all future and 
past time travelers.  They have discovered that they cannot change the past, 
and any attempt to do so is usually what makes the past that they wish to 
change.

Magic: 4
Magic is not a major part of Cybertron.

Spiritual: 10
This axiom has only recently changed.  When Optimus Prime sued the Autobot
Matrix of Leadership to destroy the hate plague it confirmed many beings 
belief in higher powers.  Whether this spiritual resurgence will continue or 
not is unknown at this time.  All current human religions have a counterpart 
in Cybertron.  The Autobots and the Decepticons each have their own form of 
ancestor worship. One theme that both of these religions share is that the end 
result of the Cybertronian Wars will be the unification of the Transformers 
into only one faction.  The Decepticons seek to eliminate the Autobots, while 
the Autobots would prefer a peaceful unification.  They refer to this ultimate 
event as "The Day When All Are One"

The World Laws of Cybertron:

The Law of Energon
The Law of Energon states that normal sources of energy, such as lightning and
oil, can be transformed into Possibility Energy for use by the Transformers.  
This is achieved through the use of energon cubes.  Energon cubes take normal 
sources of energy, changes it into possibility energy and stores it for future 
use.  Only certain, raw sources of energy can be used for this purpose.  These 
sources of energy include all forms of electricity, crude oil (which is 
considered potential energy by the LoEnergon), light focused through crystals 
and matter/anti-matter explosions can be used for this purpose.

The Law of Robotic Survival
This World Law allows the Transformers to exist in low tech cosms, makes it
easier for the to be returned to Cybertron's reality should they ever be 
transformed to another reality.
The first part of the law is accomplished by saying the existence of a
Transformer is never a contradiction.  They can exist in  realities that have 
a tech axiom of 0.  This prevents them from disconnecting even though they are 
robots.  If they should disconnect for other reasons in cosms which have a 
tech axiom of 30 (the normal minimum for sentient machines) they remain 
sentient but cannot use any of their special abilities, including 
transformation and any enhancement packages that they may have.
Should a Transformer become transformed to another reality that cannot support
them (tech 30) they will immediately transform to their vehicle form and become 
a non-sentient machine.  If the Transformer was not disconnected at the time 
and had at least one possibilty left, he will continue to function as a 
vehicle, although he will need some other being to operate him.
This happens so it is easier for the Transformer to be restored to Cybertron's
reality.  To restore a Transformer to Cybertron's reality and sentience, it is 
necessary to do one of two things.  The first, and easiest, is to have another 
Transformer storm and transform him.
The second method involves steps.  The first is to bring the Transformer to an
area under Cybertron's reality.  If he is then given one point of energon plus 
one additional for each enhancement package and special power he has.  After 
this he will be restored to Cybertron reality and sentience.
The Law of Robotic Survival has several other minor effects including negating
the Conservation of Mass (This allows giant robots to transform into handguns, 
etc.)

A Brief History of Cybertron

Many years ago the Transformers were created by another mechanical race called
the Quintessons.  The Autobots were created to fill service jobs and other
non-military roles.  The Decepticons, then called Guardians, were created as 
the Quintessons private army.

Unbeknownst to the Quintessons the computer that they used to give sentience to
the Transformers was actually a Darkness Device called Vector Sigma.  Vector 
Sigma was preparing to choose a High Lord from the Quintessons ranks when the
Transformers rebelled against their creators.  The rebellion was successful and 
the Quintessons were forced to flee Cybertron (the planet, not the cosm.)

The Autobots and the Guardians fought against each other for a brief time after
their rebellion. The Guardians were denied a quick victory due to the 
intervention of a powerful travelling Eternity Shard called the Matrix.  It 
merged with the Autobots and became their Matrix of Leadership.  

The two factions coexisted for several decades before the Guardians thirst for
war started the Second Cybertronian War.  This second war lasted for over two 
millennia.  In the end the Guardians were defeated and many retreated into the 
heart of Cybertron.  

Vector Sigma was still looking for a High Lord among the leaders of the
Autobots and the Guardians.  With the Autobots victory he decided on their 
leader, but realized that his moral code was incompatible with the duties of a 
High Lord.  Vector Sigma  was beginning to develop a split peronality.  One 
which held to the Autobots belief in peace and freedom and one which 
held to the Guardians imperative of war and subjigation of weaker species.

Half a millenia after the Guardians retreat into the depths of Cybertron they
returned, now calling themselves the Decepticons.  They had developed the power
of flight to the point where it was a natural ability of all Decepticons.  
Their leader, Megatron, launched a surprise attack and began the Third 
Cybertronian war.

It was at this time that Optimus Prime was made Autobot leader and given the
Matrix of leadership.

The war continued for milennia until Cybertron was almost completely drained of
energy.  The Autobots and Decepticons were each forced to launch an expedition 
to leave their homeworld and seek out new sources of energy to continue the 
war.  They crash landed on Earth and remained dormant for millions of years.

Meanwhile, on Cybertron, the Decepticons and Autobots each found reserves of
energy that allowed them to continue the war.  Eventually the Decepticons 
managed to drive the Autobots into the catacombs that they themselves had been 
forced to retreat into millions of years ago.

By this time Vector Sigma had gone completely dormant with both of the
candidates for High Lord off the planet.

When the Autobots and Decepticons on Earth reawoke, they found a planet rich in
energy sources and populated by a small, nonmechanical species.  They fought 
for several years over control of the energy resource of the planet, with the 
Autobots getting support from the governments and being supplied with energy 
from them.

One signifigant event that took place during this time was when Megatron built
a "space bridge" capable of transporting matrials and personnel from Cybertron 
to Earth.  A larger version of this eventually transported all of Cybertron to 
Earth orbit.  It eventually lost orbit and became a wandering planet.

Vector Sigma was returned to activity when Megatron and Optimus Prime each 
used his power 
