Date: Sun, 31 Mar 1996 06:16:48 -0600
Sender: torg@buddha.intecom.com
From: "David Wood"  <dwood@skipjack.bluecrab.org>
To: Multiple recipients of list <torg@buddha.intecom.com>
Subject: [TORG:411] D'YANDI (Yes, I know it's been done!)

(Posted for John S. Olson who doesn't know it's already been 
done as a joke. Please forward all comments to him via David 
Wood)

The Cosm of D'Yandi
     This world is very similar to Aysle in appearance, but
it differs in many important ways.  It has no firearms, its
magic is somewhat more powerful, and Aysle's moral component
(the Honor and Corruption skills) is completely lacking.
Even so, there's something maddeningly familiar about it.

Magic Axiom: 20
     D'Yandi's magic axiom is high enough for wishes to work,
but they have an annoying tendency to backfire unless very
carefully worded.  There are magical items aplenty; nearly
enough for magic shops to exist which buy and sell them.
     In many ways, magic has entirely replaced technology for
its main functions.  For instance, magical beasts of all
sorts are found here, and many adventurers have winged horses
or hippogriffs to ride.  As another example, firearms are
impossible according to the Tech axiom, but alchemical
processes can produce a "fire dust" that works like
gunpowder.

Social Axiom: 14
     Most of D'Yandi is covered with pseudo-medieval kingdoms
and baronies.  There are also theocratic empires, small
republics and city-states.  There is no one world ruler,
despite the attempts of various despots to try.

Spiritual Axiom: 18
     Miracles are plentiful and reliable.  In fact, to many,
they are simply another form of magic.  Temples are often
maintained not by tithing the faithful, but by selling the
healing powers of the priests.  Strangely enough, the gods
don't seem to mind.  Perhaps this is because of the
competition; the number of gods known and worshipped is
almost beyond counting.

Technological Axiom: 12
     This is where the medieval flavor of the world is most
seen.  In the northern lands, there are castles, barbicans,
etc., while desert areas have cities of graceful minarets.
Plate armor is known, as is chain, swords, crossbows,
glaives, guisarmes, and glaive-guisarmes.  If only I knew
what this reminded me of...

World Laws
     The World Laws of D'Yandi are strange, but somehow not
surprising.  Maybe we've seen them before, somewhere.

The Law of Impression
     Under this World Law, all spells and miracles are cast
impressed.  As stated in the Torg Rulebook, the number of
impressed spells a mage may hold is equal to the sum of his
adds in conjuration magic and the arcane knowledge of state.
The number of impressed miracles a priest can manage is equal
to her adds in faith plus focus.
     All spells designed in D'Yandi automatically follow this
rule; spells brought in from outside the cosm have +3 added
to their difficulty.  Miracles from elsewhere have the same
modifier added to the time value to cast them.  I dunno...
does this seem familiar to you, too?

The Law of Avatars
     All gods worshipped in D'Yandi have an Avatar; a
physical form they may take on when intervening in the
affairs of mortals.  These Avatars are extremely powerful
(one of them could probably give the Gaunt Man a hard time),
but they can be killed.  If that happens, the priests of that
god lose the ability to cast miracles for about a month,
while the Avatar regrows.  Now, I know I've heard of this
somewhere!
     Followers of gods from other cosms will find that their
own gods take on Avatars when they have faithful in D'Yandi.
Killing gods' Avatars only affects their worship in the
fantasy cosm.  On the other hand, D'Yandiites visiting other
cosms can still call on their gods' Avatars.
     Calling on an Avatar requires an Invocation with a
Spectacular result.

The Law of Careers
     The Law of Careers separates human endeavor into four
categories, each of which has its own limitations.  It is a
contradiction to violate those limitations.  The four Careers
are Hero, Knave, Mystic and Divine.
     The Hero is permitted to wear any armor and use any
weapons, but cannot use stealth or climbing in an urban
setting.
     A Knave cannot put on metal armor, and is limited to the
lighter weapons such as one-handed swords and target shields;
on the other hand, only Knaves can learn lockpicking and
prestidigitation, or use stealth or climbing in an urban
setting.
     A Mage cannot wear armor at all, can only use the
quarterstaff and light, one-handed weapons such as daggers
and throwing stars, and is the only Career allowed to learn
magic skills.
     Finally, the Divine is the only Career allowed to learn
focus skill, and for some odd reason, cannot use edged
weapons.
     Characters entering the reality of D'Yandi for the first
time must pick a Career; if they already violate the Law of
Careers, they must decide which Career is theirs; use of the
conflicting skills then creates a one-case contradiction.

The Law of Ruins
     This last World Law insures that the land is filled with
hidden places inhabited by monsters and full of treasure.  A
Ruin might be an abandoned castle, an underground system of
tunnels and rooms, or a set of natural caves, but there will
be monsters, and there will be treasure.
     As Ruins are emptied out, the monsters killed, the
treasure taken, other Ruins are taking shape.  The World Law
keeps the number of Ruins in the world fairly constant.  A
family of impoverished nobles, for instance, might move away
from their ancestral castle, leaving their precious magic
battle standard behind.  Soon after, a band of brigands move
in, fail to find the standard, store their loot in a tower,
then get killed before they can come back for it.  Then a
family of trolls takes up residence... and so on.
     That's how it works in the cosm; as Ruins form, they
make some kind of sense.  But when the reality of D'Yandi is
imposed over a new area, a large number of Ruins must form
instantly, and they do so in a random fashion.  Exploring a
Ruin in such an area is like rolling on a random table.  In
one room might be a fire giant with a chest of gold coins and
a wand of levitation, while the next room has an ice troll
with six silver armbands a book of spells, and a pair of
boots of walking on walls.  As these random Ruins are cleared
out, new ones form that make more sense.
     Okay.  I absolutely KNOW I've encountered all this
somewhere before, and if I can't figure it out, I'll go
absolutely spare.
     Help me?


-- David Wood, Freelance Computer Consultant
("Freelance" is just a cheesy way of saying "Irregularly Employed")
