From: daniel.macch@mms.raleigh.nc.us (Daniel Macchia)
Subject: EROSH REPOST 
Date: Thu Jun 09 14:42:46 EST 1994 

Righte-o, mate 

"Do not mourn for me.  I shall return.  The Corrupt, all corrupt, 
shall be slain." 

A paraphrase of Klymaxx's last words, seconds after slaying the Gaunt 
Man, seconds before dying and going to... 

                     EROSH 

Erosh is a pocket cosm connected to Orrorsh that was created as a 
result of Heketon and the Gaunt Man allowing those within their realm 
to maintain hope.  Where there's life there's hope, and where there's 
hope there is life.  As a result a small cosm was created where dead 
heroes, only the greatest of heroes, could go to wait for their return 
to fight the horrors once again. 

But this time it will be a fair fight. 

Axioms: 
The axioms are the same as Orrorsh.  I'm not going to bother reposting 
them. 

World Laws 

The Law Of Eternal Heroism: 
  Erosh is the land of heroes.  Those who steadfastly resisted 
temptation and corruption, and fought back, are rewarded with the 
ability to fight the horrors on even ground.  Every denizen of Erosh 
has a True Death and a weakness.  If they are not killed with the true 
death, they will be restored to life in Erosh within the week.  When 
they do receive their TD they go on to their final reward. 
  Eroshan TD's are specific.  They are never just an ocult ritual or 
shot to death.  One example would be to sever and burn the head, or 
shot at dawn with a golden bullet. 
  One last effect of LoEH is the Eroshan heroes can not be transformed 
to other realities, nor can they transform someone to Eroshan reality. 
They also cannot disconnect while in Orrorsh, outside of Orrosh 
normal disconnection rules apply.  Only those who die in the course of 
battling the horrors can become Eroshan. (More on this later) 

The Power of Hope: 
  Hope springs eternal in Erosh.  All Eroshan heores are immune to the 
Power of Fear.  Their partners also get a +5 to their Perseverance at 
the start of the adventure.  They lose this bonus if the hero is 
killed. 
  However, if failing a Perseverance check will give the party a 
greater Perseverance in the end, (lose 1 now gain 2 later) the +5 
becomes a -5.  Erosh does everything it can to destroy the horrors. 

  Erosh looks like a waiting village.  In this village all of the 
Gaunt Man;s worst enemies, those whom he despised the most, those who 
resisted Corruption and destroyed his horrors, wait. 
  The most prominent feature of Erosh is the dimthread that slowly 
winds its way up ward.  It will someday reach out and connect to 
Orrorsh.  On that day the heroes waiting will end.  They will cross 
the thread and reutrn to abttling the horrors they hate so much. 

When a great hero is slain fighting the horrors of Orrorsh his soul is 
judged.  If it is truly good with the very least hint of evil, and he 
has fought the horrors long and well, his soul will be dimthreaded 
into Erosh where a new body will await him. 
  Heketon does know that something weird has happened on occasion, but 
is not sure what it is.  He believes that it is the soul being taken 
directly to their paradise. 

NOTE:  Erosh does not have the Occult 
---------------------------------------------------------------------- 

Before anyone says that this is too unbalancing consider this. 
1. They are meant to be NPC's who can help characters on REALLY 
difficult Orrorsh adventures. 
2.  There are only about 150 Eroshan heroes.  They are far out 
numbered by the number of horrors the GM has. 
3. If you don't like it, don't use it. 

Any constructive comments are welcome. 


Dan Macchia 

