Subject: MY Faerie PD
From: david.johnston@freddy.com (DAVID JOHNSTON)
Date: 5th June 1995

Axioms:

   Magic 22:  All inhabitants of Faerie are innately magical and will
begin to die if exposed to an axiom level lower than 10.  Less
intelligent creatures will have innate magical abilities, while
intelligent creatures will learn and know magic, either in the form of
spells or as a skill called Glamourie which operates much like Orrosh
Occult, except that it's unpredictability should be more in the
direction of whimsy.

  Social 7:  Fairie has rulers, poetry, and "sports", but doesn't have
currency or taxation.  It's cities are generally autonomous bodies with
no authority over anything beyond their boundaries on a normal basis.
Faeries who have had contact with more advanced cosms may imitate some
superficial aspects of said cosm's society, but they are only playing
and don't understand or accept concepts such as feudalism or rule by
vote.

 Spiritual 0:  Faeries have no religion, nor any real concept of such.
They don't believe in gods, just more powerful faeries and wizards.
They have little use for an afterlife and don't consider the question
much.  As magical beings, they can be Warded by any believer in a
religion which has great hostility to unbelievers.
Because of their low social and nonexistent spiritual axioms, Faeries
are pretty much a blank on this whole good-evil question.  There are
kind Faeries and cruel ones...and many more who will be kind or cruel
depending on the circumstances...but even the kindest Faerie will not
think badly of another who enjoys torturing mortals and Faeries
if that other has never interfered with anything that the kind one
wished to do.  In some cases such a pair could be perfectly amicable
neighbors if their differences don't lead to direct disputes.

  Technological 7:  Faeries have no ability to make machinery.  Although
they can create some large and architecturally fanciful cities, they do
so through the power of Glamourie and the Law of Correspondence.  For
non-magical weapons they generally use wood, stone and copper, but the
higher status Faeries often use magically hardened gold and silver
weapons, along with magically created materials such as orichalcum,
slowsilver and shadowglass.



Subject: My Faerie PD Part 2
From: david.johnston@freddy.com (DAVID JOHNSTON)
Date: 5th June 1995

World Laws
   The Law of Timelessness:  While time does pass in Faerie, most of the
observable indicators of time do not.  Seasons do not change on a
regular basis, day does not follow night, and aging processes are
arrested, even for a mortal while under this law.  Pregnancy requires
magic to instantly bring it to term, otherwise it will never bear fruit.
However, a mortal under the influence of the law of timelessness for an
extended period of time will rapidly "catch up" as soon as they leave
it.
   The Law of Correspondence:  Faeries match their surroundings and
their surroundings match the Faeries.  Large numbers of Faeries who move
into a new territory will cause it to shift in their direction, becoming
forested in response to an influx of forest creatures or turning to
night in response to an invasion by the Unseelie Court.  One or two
refugees forced to live in unsuitable territory will be transformed by
it into something that more closely matches their surroundings.
   Most Faeries are reasonably content with their surroundings, but for
some reason the Seelie Court (consisting of daylight and summer beings)
and the Unseelie Court (consisting of night and winter beings) are at
odds and often try to expand their territories at the expense of their
rivals.  The Unseelie are more often than not hostile to mortals.  The
Seelie are more friendly, having some common interests.
   The Law of Mortality:  Normally all Faeries are treated as
possibility rated in combat.  Possibility rated Faeries subtract 1 wound
from every injury, making death difficult at best.  However, this does
not apply to any combat which involves possibility rated mortals.
