  This is an extended remix of an entry that was sent into Infiniverse 
Newsletter for the pocket dimension competition run during 1994.
The first 2,000 words are the original entry, the rest is bits and pieces to 
flesh it out a tad. It has been observed that it is so big (conceptually) that 
it would probabably serve comfortably as a cosm in its own right.

Saxon Brenton     October 1994
----------

  The surreal reality of F'tipapetang (pronounced: feh TIPPA peh 
TANG) is a fringe reality of Core Earth. It is a strange conglomeration 
of dissimilar worlds all nested within an abstract space known as The 
Void. Within F'tipapetang strange sights abound, the landscape is 
mutable, and to navigate about some of the more bizarre worlds the 
natives may learn the Direction Sense skill.
  The Void is a well-lit area of open space which is aquamarine in 
colour, giving it the appearance of being underwater. Gravity only 
applies when something is in direct contact with one of the small pieces 
of ground - mainly floating islands covered with jungle and forest, or 
floating pathways. It is the latter that are the most important for the 
inhabitants of the other parts of the reality, as they are the easiest way 
to travel between the interdimensional warps that connect the various 
nested worlds of the cosm.
  There are scores of known worlds, and it is rumoured that there are 
many more that are unknown - including some that are kept secret and 
others that have not been discovered yet. Almost all of the worlds have 
entrances into The Void, although some cannot be accessed directly 
from there. Many worlds also have direct connections to other pocket 
worlds. The less well known worlds may have only one entrance 
leading into them, or none. 
  However, just because a pocket world does not have a natural access 
does not mean that it is forever beyond reach. Each world constitutes a 
separate dimension in its own right, and thus can be entered by the use 
of the Extradimensional Gate spell. Most worlds can be entered this 
way from any point in any other world, but there are some that can only 
be entered from certain areas, or perhaps only a particular spot.
  Each world has a unique nature, often with individual conditions of 
gravity, light, climate, number of physical dimensions, etc. Not all 
correspond to the surrealist art movement: worlds reminiscent of 
Hieronymus Bosch and Escher coexist with those of Dali, Miro, and 
Magritte, among many others. Nevertheless, despite their separate 
dimensional placements and superficial differences, all share an 
underlying reality due to the Law of Subjectivity.
  Cosm attribute limits are all 13.

Magic 18. F'tipapetang resembles Aysle in that magic, rather than 
technology, is most commonly used in daily life. Almost everyone has at 
least Divination abilities, as these are taught as social skills.

Social 28. The high level of social advancement reflects awareness of 
the effects of the Law of Subjectivity: everyone is aware of and respects 
the fact that more than one interpretation of reality can be literally true. 
People tend to be very broad-minded and respective of other people's 
points of view. Nevertheless, while they are inquisitive and take nothing 
for granted, they also tend towards being excessively calm and stoic 
(almost blase) about the out-of-the-ordinary.
  They have rich social lives, and community spirit extends not just to 
include the immediate town or village, but to other communities in other 
areas. Local governments function as consultative bodies - people 
discuss what they want, and their representatives enact what is decided 
upon. However, the way representatives are selected differs from area 
to area, depending on tradition, expediency, and anything else that takes 
their fancy. As a result, the forms of local government range from 
hereditary monarchies (with ceremonial powers) through democracies 
to total anarchies (where the work's done by whoever feels like doing it 
at the time). Inter-regional government concerns are handled by local 
representatives meeting and deciding upon mutually satisfactory 
solutions.
  There is a large communication network both because of trade and 
people keeping in touch by spells, written materials, and even miracles. 
Travelling bards and storytellers are popular. Also, because truth is 
subjective, they have a great amount of precision in their language to 
describe things and events - whether something happened to you 
personally, whether you saw something (and whether up close or at a 
distance), or whether you were told of something from someone else.

Spiritual 21. These people are deeply spiritual, and have a Spirit axiom 
almost as high as is possible without one mythos becoming dominant 
over another. They are polythesic, have many dozens of gods, and do 
not proselytise.

Technological 11. Technology is low level, with magic, and to a lesser 
extent miracles, often used instead of it.

Law of Alienation
  This world law causes people from other realities to find F'tipapetang 
bizarre and unsettling, and natives of this world to be just as 
uncomfortable in other realities. Because of this effect, ords will 
transform to and from F'tipapetang's reality at a rate one point slower 
than normal. Note that the Core Earth Law of Hope is cumulative with 
the Law of Alienation, so that Core Earth ords will continue to 
transform even more slowly than other ords.
  This world law also causes people who are aliens to this reality, or 
aliens from this reality, to look subtly "wrong" - as if they were slightly, 
visually "out of synch" with the world around them. Basically, they look 
as though they're video images imperfectly dubbed onto a background. 
This in no way affects their physical presence and how they sense or 
interact with the world they are in; it's a visual effect only. However, 
even if they otherwise look perfectly human (which cannot always be 
guaranteed in F'tipapetang), most people will sense that there is 
something wrong with the way these out-of-place people look, and on a 
Perception roll against a difficulty of 8 will be able to identify what that 
wrongness is. Anyone who is familiar with the effects of this world law 
will easily be able to identify them as extradimensionals.

Law of Wondrous Panoramas
  This world law is responsible for the strange appearance of many of 
the worlds; while it is the Law of Subjectivity that allows each world to 
be individual, it is the Law of Wondrous Panoramas that causes them to 
be so bizarre in their individuality.
  This law also causes distant objects and scenes to sometimes take on 
fantastic appearances, even though close up they may appear mundane, 
or may disappear altogether like a mirage. For example, if you were to 
stand in a field of orange flowering bushes, up close they will look just 
like that - bushes with orange flowers. However, in the middle distance 
those flowers might take on the shape of flames, while in the far 
distance they may actually BE flames. As you move through the field the 
bushes closest to you would stay normal, while bushes you passed and 
are now further away begin to change in appearance. 
  The appearance of the landscape may therefore exist independently of 
the observer (and thus not vanish when viewed up close), be mirage-
like (and so change at close quarters) or be the result of magical 
illusions (and thus have a subjective reality that depends on whether an 
observer disbelieves in it or not).
  The downside of this world law is that depth and perspective are 
undermined by these visual distortions. All activities that are carried 
out at a distance, such as range attacks, Perception rolls, etc., have the 
following additional penalties added: 0 to the difficulty at close range; 
2 at medium range; and 4 at long range.
  The GM should take every opportunity to use the unique landscapes of 
this reality to play mindgames with PCs as they travel about. This law is 
the reason why people in F'tipapetang can develop the Direction Sense 
skill, which functions essentially identically to that of the Living Land.

Law of Subjectivity
  This law is similar in many ways to the Ayslish Law of Observation: 
that which is observed is real, for the observer. Also like the Law of 
Observation, observations give rise to theories, rather than theories 
needing to be tested by observations.
  This law is also what allows the various worlds that make up 
F'tipapetang to have such apparent differences while still retaining the 
same overall reality set. Whereas the axioms and three world laws 
apply to the whole reality, all other local conditions are subject to 
"local laws", which can vary between each world. Local laws don't 
count towards differences between realities, contradictions, or 
transformation, and take effect immediately upon entering an area. Local 
laws typically govern the physical properties of a region rather than the 
actions and attitudes of people within it.
  These effects, when combined with the Law of Wondrous Panoramas, 
explain the broad-mindedness of  F'tipapetang's inhabitants. They are 
aware that conditions vary between areas, that even within one area 
people may have different perceptions of reality, and moreover that 
more than one point of view can be literally true. People deal with these 
effects by consulting with others, either to get first hand accounts of 
what actually is there, or at least alternate perceptions of what other 
people have seen from a distance. They are therefore naturally 
gregarious and interested in what other people think and have 
experienced. By communicating their experiences with each other they 
set up multiple reference points that overcome the distortion in what 
they personally perceive. This creates a strong community spirit as they 
converse with each other to determine what is the best and most 
consistent version of events, which accounts for their high Social axiom.
  Another aspect of this world law is that of an individual's True Self. 
This is similar to the Orrorshan True Forms of the Corrupt, but whereas 
a person's True Form is hidden, a person's True Self is represented in 
their physical appearance for all to see. A person who chooses to take 
on the shape of his True Self rolls using his Spirit against a difficulty of 
10. If successful, the person's body begins to slowly change to represent 
what he's "really like". The base time taken for the change is the value 
of the person's Spirit attribute in weeks. At the end of each week the roll 
is made again, and made easier with a +1 bonus for each week that the 
change has successfully taken place. If a roll is failed then the change is 
halted until another week passes, when the roll is made again. 
  A character's True Self is based partly on self perception and partly on 
actual personality. Some true selves are obvious in what they represent 
- a person with a bad temper may gain an aura of fire about his head. 
Others are highly symbolic and obscure - what, for instance, would an 
apple for a face (ala Magritte's The Great War) represent? Consulting 
with players may help define a character's personality and self 
perception, but the final decisions on a character's True Self is left to 
the GM. The changes can be minor or profound. Such changes explain 
the presence of so many odd looking people, ranging from variations on 
the human form, through various races normally found in other realities, 
to abstract shapes like columns of fire or orbiting collections of 
spheres. There is no bias or intolerance against people because of 
different appearances.
  A person's True Self must keep the same number of attribute points as 
he started out with, but may be rearranged to taste as long as they abide 
by the cosm limits. Skills remain the same.
  Advantages gained by the True Self tend to be limited. Physical 
changes (claws, fangs, natural armour, etc.) give maximum bonuses of 
+2 to Strength or Toughness, and F'tipapetang's reality does not support 
enhancement packages. Pulp power-like abilities are either non-existent 
or highly limited, e.g., fire auras do no burning damage, and so cannot 
be used as a weapon.
  It is also because of the Law of Subjectivity that people of more or 
less identical races can mate and produce viable offspring. Humans can 
still breed with apple-faced humans but not with elves, while a human 
who takes up a True Self as an elf can procreate with other elves 
(whether born into, or changed to, that race) just fine.

----------

Selected Bibliography For How to Make Really Weird Dimensions:
*  "Book of the Vishanti: Legends and Lore of the Dark Dimension" 
    Parts 1 and 2. Roy Thomas and R.J.M. Lofficier. Dr Strange, 
    Sorcerer Supreme #21 and 22. New York, Marvel Comics, 1989.
*  Proto-Dimensions Sourcebook, Volume 1. Ted Kocot and Loren 
    Wiseman. Bloomington, Il, GDW, 1993. [For Dark Conspiracy RPG]
*  Manual of the Planes. Jeff Grubb. Lake Geneva, Wi, TSR, 1987. [For 
    AD&D RPG]
*  "Castrovalva", Parts 1 to 4. Dr Who. BBC, 1982.
*  Flatland, By A. Square. Edwin Abbott.

ERRATA
  One important thing to remember is that Local Laws are supported by 
the World Law of Subjectivity. As a person enters a new pocket world, 
the Law of Subjectivity causes automatic physical adaptation to local 
conditions, but without transformation between realities, loss of 
possibilities, or the risks of double transformation. This allows for 
people to adapt as necessary to places like Alit, where it would be 
downright unhealthy to not become two dimensional, as well as other 
places like Biddledock or Pridolk where the appearance of the place 
poses no immediate physical danger.

Reconnection Numbers
Character from F'tipapetang	Character in F'tipapetang
is in reality of:      		is from reality of:
Atlantis   	19		Atlantis   	9
Avalon   	17		Avalon   	6
Aysle   	11		Aysle    	6
Aztec Empire 	11		Aztec Empire 	7
Core Earth   	14		Core Earth   	12
Cyberpapacy 	12		Cyberpapacy  	15
Kantovia   	24		Kantovia   	3
Land Below * 	22		Land Below * 	3
Lereholm   	24		Lereholm   	3
Living Land   	22		Living Land   	5
Magna Verita 	12		Magna Verita  	6
Nile Empire   	11		Nile Empire   	11
Nippon Tech 	17		Nippon Tech 	13
Olympus   	19		Olympus   	3
Orrorsh   	11		Orrorsh   	9
Pulse's cosm   	21		Pulse's cosm 	20
Star Sphere   	13		Star Sphere   	18
Terra   	14		Terra   	11
Tharkold   	11		Tharkold   	15
Tz'Ravok   	13		Tz'Ravok   	3
* also Arachnidia and Gehenna

  Technical note: The Law of Alienation acts as one of the "intangible 
factors" that affects the calculation of F'tipapetang's reconnection 
numbers. All numbers are calculated as per the standard comparison of 
axiom levels, and then reduced by one (to a minimum of 3).

Number of Dimensions
  The various pocket worlds of F'tipapetang have a varying number of 
spatial dimensions. While many have three, there are some with two, 
and one (Heewheet) that has one. There also a few with more than three.
  There are also a few with irregular numbers of physical dimensions, 
e.g., 3.296. When in these types of worlds the perception of humans 
(and most other races accustomed to realities with exactly three 
physical dimensions) are necessarily distorted and incomplete. Things 
may look slightly different from different angles, and depending on the 
GM's interpretation of the severity of the difference in the number of 
physical dimensions, an increase in the DN to visual Perception totals 
may be applied.
  Additional to the worlds with anomalous (to Earther sensibilities) 
arrangements of their physical dimensions, also to be taken into account 
are worlds with anomalous arrangements of temporal dimensions. The 
simplest to handle are those with the same direction of time but vastly 
increased or decreased rates of passage, or perhaps an erratic passage 
if the two are combined. But for GMs willing to run the gauntlet of 
temporal paradox, causality loops, doxie glitches, time squinks, chronal 
blips, the Blinovitch Limitation Effect, and bifurcating the space-time 
continuum into the wrong leg of the Trousers of Time, then more 
ambitious arrangements are possible.
  Worlds were time runs backwards relative to most others are an 
obvious choice. Also possible are worlds where movement in space is 
swapped with movement in time, so that movement in one spatial 
dimension direction takes one backwards or forwards in time, while 
staying in that world for any period will cause physical movement to 
another area. And that's just moving along one space-time axis; perhaps 
moving left-right causes people to age or youthen, while moving up-
down shunts one across the sidereal string into a completely different 
comsverse. :-)

Warp Portals
  The warp portals that lead between pocket worlds, and occasionally 
within pocket worlds, come in as many types as the dimensions they 
connect - if not more so. Some are permanent, while others have 
intermittent duration (set or random), or are even once-off occurrences. 
They may be tiny things, barely big enough for a grain of sand to pass 
through, while occasionally they may be huge, hundreds of thousands of 
kilometres across and literally big enough to drive planets through. They 
may be obvious, for instance free-standing holes hanging in mid-air 
outlined by a glow, or be unobtrusive, such as cave entrances.
  Warp portals may take virtually any form, from floating fanged mouths, 
to doorways, circular pads on the ground, mist obscured areas, pictures 
or mirrors hanging on walls, etc.

Races
  The propensity of the Law of Subjectivity to allow for True Selves has 
resulted in a diversity of weird and wonderful races, many of which 
may be used as PCs. What race(s) once inhabited the surreal reality is 
now unknown, and probably moot anyway; there are now *lots*. In 
addition to the of sample races below (all tailored for exceptional 
weirdness value), any other Torg PC type could logically (if not 
necessarily rationally) originate in F'tipapetang, if in somewhat 
modified form; the most obvious change is that the lack of enhancement 
packages will require modifications to some races. All this also 
includes the option of using sapient races who haven't actually been 
officially presented as PCs, most notably benthe and half-folk.
  The following are typical members of their races, not PC templates:

Arami 
Dexterity 11
  Dodge 12, Flight 12, Stealth 12
Strength 7
Toughness 8
Perception 9
  Alteration magic 10, Direction sense 10, Divination magic 11, 
  Scholar (realm lore) 10
Mind 8
  Apportation magic 9
Charm 9
  Charm 11, Persuasion 11
Spirit 8
  Faith [varies] 9
Possibility potential: some (35)
Additional adds: 3 at +1 adds
  The arami are a race who look like disembodied, floating masks of 
humanoid faces. They range from highly detailed to almost abstract in 
form. They are all open at the back, from where their features can be 
plainly seen in reversed relief. As a race they tend towards 
inscrutability and mysteriousness, but this seems to be not just out of 
secretiveness, but also a perverse sense of melodrama.
  They possess the full range of human senses, despite the fact that their 
eyes, noses, mouths, and (for those that have them) ears, are empty 
orifices. They eat by absorbing sunlight, and reproduce by fission 
approximately every five years. They have a life span of approximately 
50 years. They can float at a maximum movement rate of 11.
  It has been suggested that arami are at least partly extradimensional 
creatures, with only their mask-like features poking into the standard 
three dimensions. The reason being that an arami usually stays at a 
constant height above the ground (between 1 to 2 meters, depending on 
the individual) although they can go down to ground height or up to a 
quarter their usual altitude again. This is not the case, however; arami 
are not extradimensional beings, and their faces are all that they consist of.

Bolang 
Dexterity 7
  Flight 8
Strength 7
Toughness 10
Perception 10
  Alteration magic 11, Direction sense 11, Divination magic 12, 
  Evidence analysis 11, Find 11, Scholar (philosophy) 11, 
  Scholar (realm lore) 11, Tracking 11
Mind 8
  Apportation magic 9, Conjuration magic 9
Charisma 8
  Charm 9
Spirit 10
  Faith [varies] 12
Possibility potential: some (35)
Additional adds: 3 at +1 adds
  Bolang are beings composed of a conglomeration of spheroids which 
orbit around one another in a area about two meters high and one meter 
across. Storm knights from Core Earth find them reminiscent of small 
versions of Yog-Sothoth. Bolang are an intensely inquisitive race, both 
in terms of physical actuality (or at least, as actual as anything can be 
in F'tipapetang), mysticism, and philosophy. They are open and friendly, if 
occasionally obscure when they become too obsessed in their current 
interests.
  Bolang live up to 120 years, and reproduce by two or more adults 
donating one or more of the globes from their bodies to make up the 
body of a child. New spheres form by slowly growing out of nothing 
within an individual. They feed on water, thermal energy (sunlight or 
fire), and free-floating dust particles. They have a movement rate of 11.
  Each bolang has its own colour scheme by which others recognise it. 
This is no problem for those used to this activity, but for others 
identifying the colour combinations of the constantly shifting globes 
requires a Perception total of 18.

Imat 
Dexterity 10
  Dodge 11, Flight 11
Strength 7
Toughness 8
Perception 10
  Alteration magic 11, Direction sense 11, Divination magic 12, 
  Direction sense 11, Evidence analysis 11, Trick 11
Mind 10
  Apportation magic 11, Conjuration magic 11, Test of Wills 11
Charisma 7
  Persuasion 8, Taunt 8
Spirit 8
  Faith [varies] 9, Intimidate 9
Possibility potential: some (35)
Additional skills: 3 at +1 adds
  The imat are one of the partially extradimensional races. They appear 
as a floating conglomeration of interlocking geometric solids and 
planes, roughly 30 cm across. They are brightly, even garishly, 
coloured; with each distinct shape being either white, red, yellow, or 
blue. The shapes and planes are almost constantly moving in 
relationship to each other, especially when the imat is moving, or 
another person is changing their point of view relative to the imat. Imat 
live up to 80 years, and are omnivorous. They have a movement rate of 
11. Imat tend to be adventurous, quick-witted, mercurial, and brusque. It 
is not known how they reproduce; when asked they will sometimes 
begin to recite a long string of mathematical symbols, which no-one else 
understands. More frequently they simply decline to even try.
  The 2-D planes of the imat can be used as extremely effective cutting 
edges, doing damage equal to half the imat's Toughness attribute.
  It is strange that the imat, who are a truly partially extradimensional 
race, always appear as one continuous (albeit constantly changing) 
form, while the bolang (whose separate spheroids give the appearance 
of being extradimensionaly displaced) are not.

Gret 
Dexterity 9
  Beast riding 10, Manoeuvre 10, Missile weapons 10, 
  Unarmed combat 10
Strength 8
Toughness 8
Perception 8
  Alteration magic 9, Direction sense 9, Divination magic 9, 
  Scholar (realm lore) 9
Mind 9
  Apportation magic 10, Conjuration magic 10
Charisma 9
  Charm 10, Persuasion 10
Spirit 9
  Faith [varies] 11, Intimidation 10
Possibility potential: some (35)
Additional adds: 3 at +1 adds
Equipment: varies
  Grets are an egg-shaped, silicon based race that stand roughly 1.25 
meters tall. They have one large compound eye, below which is a large 
mouth fringed with a moustache of manipulatory tentacles. On top of the 
body is a shock of fine feathers. They have three short legs, placed 
trilaterally below the body. The have yellow (sulphur-based) blood, 
which after about ten minutes outside the body tends to turn highly 
corrosive for a brief period (around five minutes) before evaporating.
  Gret are stoic, reliable, and tend to be loners. They live up to 90 years, 
and are omnivores. They have a movement rate of 10. Reproduction 
occurs when a male fertilises the 3-5 eggs of a female, which are then 
given to a parental to tend for roughly 6 months until hatching.

Mric-ma-tu 
Dexterity 8
  Melee weapons 9, Missile weapons 9
Strength 10
  Lifting 11
Toughness 8
Perception 10
  Alteration magic 11, Direction sense 11, Divination magic 12, 
  Scholar (philosophy) 11, Scholar (realm lore) 11, Tracking 11
Mind 10
  Artist 11, Conjuration magic 11, Willpower 11
Charisma 8
  Charm 9, Persuasion 9
Spirit 7
  Faith [varies] 9
Possibility potential: some (35)
Additional adds: 3 at +1 adds
Equipment: varies
  The mric-ma-tu are ambulatory, intelligent plants. They look like squat 
barrel cacti (about 1 meter tall, 3/4 meter wide) with 5 arms growing 
equidistantly around the tops of their bodies. These arms terminate in 
palm leaf-like hands with six digits (four fingers and two opposable 
thumbs, one thumb on each side of the hand) connected by webbing. 
They walk slowly (movement rate 6) on scores of short, stubby rootlets, 
which they can bury into the earth to absorb nutrients. They can also 
gain nutrients and water by eating fruits through their mouths on the top 
sides of their bodies. They do not like the taste of meat. They 
photosynthesise through their bodies and especially through their hands. 
Their hands also have many photosensitive dots that they use to see with 
that run along the struts of the hands.
  They are a philosophical race; physically slow and plodding, but 
mentally agile and quick-witted. They live up to 250 years. They 
reproduce every 5 years or so. A mric-ma-tu who goes into its male 
phase develops pollen which is carried in the air to someone who is 
currently female. The young which result initially form as nodules 
among the females rootlets, and are planted in a communal creche 
where they are looked after and taught by adults until about the age of 3, 
when the youngsters become mobile themselves.

Setyrax (pronounced: seh-TEE-racks) 
Dexterity 11
  Stealth 12
Strength 7
Toughness 8
Perception 9
  Alteration magic 10, Direction sense 10, Divination magic 11, 
  Scholar (realm lore) 10, Trick 10
Mind 8
  Apportation magic 9, Conjuration magic 9, Willpower 9
Charisma 9
  Persuasion 10, Taunt 10
Spirit 8
  Faith [varies] 10, Intimidation 10
Possibility potential: some (35)
Additional adds: 3 at +1 add
  These beings are thin 1.75 meter tall columns of flame. Each has an 
individual colour. They are near intangible, and people who pass 
through them only feel warmth, not burning heat. Setyrax do not burn 
things except through conscious effort, and only then because they want 
to eat it. They can burn anything a natural flame can.
  Setyrax can form up to three solid pseudopods at any time, which they 
use for manipulating solid objects. These pseudopods may be up to half 
a meter long, and form only from the mid-region of the body. They move 
at a rate of 10.
  They are effectively intangible because they are vaporous, and are 
most often harmed by atmospheric based attacks. They can pass through/
around non-airtight objects, but not through sealed barriers 
unless they can burn through. They asphyxiate if cut off from air.
Setyrax are an analytical, rational, and cool-tempered race, which has 
surprised some who think in terms of cliches of flame-based beings 
being passionate and hot tempered. They live up to 40 years.
  New setyrax are formed when a swarm of anywhere between 10 to 50 
setyrax combine into one huge bonfire, after which they separate with a 
25% increase in their numbers. These breeding cycles occur every ten 
years or so. However, other bonfire mergings, of religious or social 
significance, may occur more often without resulting in procreation.

Worlds
Alit
  Alit is a two dimensional world vaguely reminiscent of Abbott's 
Flatland. The government is a bureaucracy directed by an annual 
consensus. The standing policies of the administration are publicly 
posted on the bulletin boards for public scrutiny and debate. Once a 
year (or possibly sooner for unforeseen issues) a miracle of the local 
deity of administration makes a detailed poll of public opinion, which is 
used for the next twelve months.

Local Law of Recognition
  This local law confers automatic recognition of each person 
encountered. This effect is not dependent on physical characteristics, 
but on recognising personality and "inner self". This local law makes 
the likes of masks and the Disguise skill redundant.

Briddledock
  The world of Briddledock is inside a huge torus (donut) shape 300 km 
across and 10,000 km long. However, only the curvature across the ring 
is apparent in three dimensional space; the curvature along the ring is in 
four dimensional space, making Briddledock seem to be inside a long, 
flat lying pipe that mysteriously circles back to its starting point. 
Briddledock's local law makes it look like a cartoon world, although 
mercifully the inhabitants don't act that way.
  The government structure is of scattered city states (with varying types 
of government). The two largest are Weln and Varatanataxial ('Xial for 
short), due to the close proximity of a large number of warp portals. 
Weln is run by a consortium of merchant families. 'Xial is a republic 
with an elected council.

Local Law of Cartoon Appearances.
  This local law makes everything seem as though it has been drawn, but 
does not grant cartoon attributes, such as compulsive wackiness, the 
ability to do almost anything as long as its funny, immortality but not 
indestructibility, etc.

The Confederacy of Yin
  Physically this world is a plain some 200 km across and 1,000 km 
long. It is actually near perfectly flat, but does not look like it because 
of the effect of one of its two local laws. This plain resembles a 
traditional Japanese print: perspective is tilted upwards with increasing 
distance, and a combination of broad areas of undifferentiated colours 
with a reduction in shadow gives this place a 2-dimensional 
appearance.
  The Confederacy is a grouping of many small nation-states. Each state 
has a government by hereditary aristocracy, each of which contributes a 
rotating membership to a central federal government. Three head-of-
state positions are filled biannually from the membership of the central 
government. Administration is carried out by a bureaucracy of talent at 
both state and federal level.

Local Law of Tilted Perspective.
  In contrast to perspective as Earth understands it - where objects 
appear smaller with distance as they recede towards a vanishing point - 
the perspective here operates in a manner reminiscent of a traditional 
Japanese print. Increasing distance from the observer is indicated by an 
increase in height at a 45 degree angle. Anyone in this world will 
always feel as if at the bottom of a valley, no matter were they go. Items 
appear to decrease in size at discrete intervals: they appear the same 
size from 0 to 10 meters, then have their size from 10-50 meters, one 
quarter size from 50-100 meters, one eighth from 100-500, one sixteenth 
from 500-1,000 meters, and so on.

Local Law of Flat Surface Appearance
  The effects of light and shadow to highlight details of shape and form 
are severely curtailed. While light and shade still exist in the same 
amount as one Earth, their ability to indicate form and texture are 
virtually gone.
  Combining with this is an effect that causes areas of colour to become 
uniform and regular in appearance. Large areas of colour will be 
exactly the same tone and hue; no variation or mottling. Also, items with 
patterns on them will display that pattern as if the surface were perfectly 
flat; no matter how curved or creased the item is, the patter will appear 
uniform and regular.
  As a result of these effects, it is almost impossible to distinguish one 
item from a multitude of identical others except at extreme close range 
(0-1 meter). For instance, if one were to stand at the edge of a field of 
wheat, then only at close range could one distinguish individual stalks. 
Beyond that the filed would become a flat plain of perfectly uniform 
yellow, without any apparent variation in height, colour, or texture.

The Hub
  The Hub is so called because it is the world that has the greatest 
number of warp portals, both into the Void and to other pocket worlds. 
As such this place is used as a market area.
  Physically The Hub consists of a huge area of space, roughly 10,000 
km across. Space is curved into a sphere through the fourth dimension, 
so that it has no edge. Floating about The Hub, in random patterns that 
fortunately never bring them into collision, are platters of ground on 
which people may live. These land masses may be from 5 - 100 km 
across, but aren't usually that thick. Usually they are about 10 meters 
thick at the edge, thickening to approximately one tenth their diameter at 
their centre. The terrain of each platter varies through plain, mountains, 
glaciers, and lakes. Almost all platters have inhabitants, but the most 
densely inhabited are those with the most warp portals, and hence make 
the most accessible trade areas.
  The Hub, moreso than any other pocket world, has a wide variety of 
governments. Generally, the only constant between these governments is 
that (usually) they control at most one platter.

Local Law of Gravitation 1
  Each platter of matter generates its own gravity field, spherical in 
shape and equal in size to the diameter of the platter. Gravity is always 
one directional, so that people cannot walk on the barren undersides of 
the platters because they are pushed away.
  Beyond the gravity field of the platters there is no attraction or 
repulsion. People must have a means of flight to move about.

Garshwynnde
  This world is a crowded, bustling, cacophonous place that resembles a 
Heironymous Bosch painting. It is hard to visually discern the exact 
nature of Garshwynnde, partly because of the Local Law of Distraction 
(below), and partly because Garshwynnde has an irregular number of 
physical dimensions (3.492 to be exact).
  Garshwynnde is an anarchy; there is no one in charge. What public 
services exist are maintained on a voluntary basis by what are, 
effectively, clubs and interest groups who advertise their services on 
the magical bulletin boards and information webs.

Local Law of Distraction
  This law creates a jumbled visual impression; colours and shapes 
clash and conflict, as do smells, sounds, and tastes, etc., which makes it 
hard to identify a particular out of the multitude.
  In game terms add +2 to the DN of all PER attempts to sense something 
at close range, +4 to the DN at medium range, and +6 to the DN at long 
range, as applicable. Additionally, it is virtually impossible to get an 
overview of a scene or setting, as the parts distract attention away from 
the whole.

Pridolk
  This world is a small sphere some 1,000 km in diameter, with a sky 
created by a solid emerald dome some 100 km above sea level that 
marks the limit of this particular world. The most noteworthy aspect of 
Pridolk is that it resembles one of the cubist painting, an effect directly 
attributable to its local law.
  Pridolk is run, more or less, by a multitude of baronies who form 
together into increasingly larger groupings, until at the apex is the 
Shinning Court. The Court, however, is basically a social club for 
arranging the sporting tournaments; it has no political power. As a 
general rule, administration is carried out by baronies, and the further 
up the hierarchy one goes, the less political authority one encounters.

Local Law of Double-Sided Perspective
  All creatures and objects that can be seen within the horizon have both 
their front and back sides visible. Only large things that extend beyond 
the horizon (i.e., the world itself) are excepted. Naturally, very distant 
things will only appear as dots unless viewed with the magical or 
miraculous equivalent of telescopes, so this law is unlikely to make 
much difference at extreme range.

Thftht (pronounced "this thit")
  This is another world with an irregular number of spatial dimensions 
(equal to pi, 3.14159 etc.). Moreover, the shape of Thftht's space is 
irregular and "crumpled", so that, for instance, travelling north ten paces 
then east 5 paces will not bring on to the same place as travelling east 5 
paces and then north 10. Thfttht looks something like a Dali soft watch 
painting.
  Thfttht is a democracy where candidates are nominated for office 
(whether by themselves, friends and acquaintances, or total strangers) 
on the grounds on a person's merits. The candidates' activities, 
achievements, and merits are publicly debated and discussed on the 
information networks, and then voted on.

Local Law of Malleability
  This local law causes everything to be soft and spongy. There is not 
such thing as a rigid or brittle object. Even freezing will at best only 
change liquids into bendy solids (spongy ice, anyone?). This effect does 
not change an items Toughness, just how that Toughness is applied; an 
object will be just as hard to damage, but will now be so because it is 
soft and difficult to damage rather than being hard and unyielding.
  Items that elsewhere would normally be rigid or hard will be 
malleable, but will soon return to their original shape. This allows for 
people to stand up despite their no longer firm bones, as long as they are 
prepared to wobble a bit as they move about.

Trelgador
  This world is a maze of tree limb-like growths that divide and merge. 
The limbs can be anything from 10 to 100 meters in circumference, with 
all surfaces offering footing regardless of orientation due to the local 
law. Light in Trelgador comes from the omnipresent flowers of the tree 
limbs - on the many smaller limbs are ubiquitous flowers glowing with 
varying coloured light roughly equal to a 60 watt globe. These flowers 
mature into ovoid fruit called yargah, which are yellow in colour and 
taste something like a tangy pear. The smaller limbs have orangy-red 
leaves, which form thickets of growth that support a wide range of 
wildlife.
  The governments in Trelgador are small local villages, who appoint 
their representatives in a variety of ways. these villages have cordial 
relationships, but rarely co-ordinate their activities.

Local Law of Gravitation 2
  Trelgador's local law of gravitation causes standard gravity to apply to 
everything that is in direct contact with anything else. This allows for 
all surfaces of the Tree's limbs to support someone, no matter how 
spindly the branch. It also means that dropped objects do not fall, but 
either hang in space or fly off if they retain momentum.

