Hardunathe

Date: Mon, 26 Feb 1996 03:06:53 -0600
From: "Corinth, aka James T Gleason" <glea0015@itlabs.umn.edu>
To: Multiple recipients of list <torg@buddha.intecom.com>
Subject: [TORG:147] Hardunathe v3.0, Part Zero(Overview)


	Hardunathe is my old AD&D campaign setting adapted to TORG.  As 
an AD&D game, it developed as a specific counter to the literal tempest 
of munchkin AD&D campaigns I've seen, heard, played, and run over the 
years.  I tried my damndest to put the "medieval" back into "medieval 
fantasy role-playing".  Instead, all I did was succeed in breaking or 
mutating all the bad AD&D stereotypes.
	That was over three years ago, and I've not played a sequel to 
the original campaign yet.  (Silly Note:  the campaign itself came to be 
called "A Falk in the Worest" after an innocent joke slung by one of the 
players.)  For better or worse, I no longer desire to do so.  I have a 
number of better RPG systems to use it with, including TORG, so why not 
adapt it?
	This is the third version of my fantasy world, and it probably 
won't be the last.  With my penchant for perfectionism, I probably won't 
stop tinkering with it until it's large enough to be a TORG sourcebook in 
its own right- complete with accompanying artwork.  ;-)  (I can just see it 
now:  "Hardunathe- The Sourcebook For Dark Fantasy".  Maybe I'll win the 
lottery too...)
	The cosm itself will be split into a series of posts, each with a 
subject line similiar to this one.  As much as possible, I'll attempt to 
mimic the structure of the published cosm sourcebooks.  Feel free to 
discuss them, shoot holes through them, compare them to previous cosms, 
compare me to JMS (*j/k*), or wonder when I'll finally snap and design 
Frostbite Falls as a pocket dimension of the Cartoon Cosm- complete with 
stats for Moose and Squirrel.  ;-)

[Shameless Plug Alert!]

	In the meantime, logoff and run- don't walk- to your nearest 
theater and plop down the dough for a ticket to see _Rumble in the 
Bronx_!  I did, and it was the first time since _Wings of Honneamise_ 
that I felt *good* about spending seven dollars and over two hours on a  
movie.  Not even _Goldeneye_ was that good, and I'm a dedicated James 
Bond fan.



Date: Tue, 27 Feb 1996 16:48:50 -0600
From: "Corinth, aka James T Gleason" <glea0015@itlabs.umn.edu>
To: Multiple recipients of list <torg@buddha.intecom.com>
Subject: [TORG:156] Hardunathe v3.0, Part One(Axioms)


	The reality of Hardunathe, at it's foundation, is that of a 
medieval fantasy world.  In this respect it is similiar to Aysle and 
Avalon.  However, there are some subtle differences worth noting.  Here 
are those differences as expressed by the cosm's axioms.

*Magic: 18

	The study and use of magic is an old and established pursuit.  
Impressed spells are commonplace, magical creatures of great power exist, 
and powerful workings of lasting or permanant effect are possible.  But, 
the common man cannot make use of it as can his Aylish counterpart.  In 
Hardunathe, becoming a wizard requires that one possess a kind of genetic 
trait called "the Gift", "the Sight", or "the Mark" depending on just 
where you came from.  If one does not possess this trait, then one can 
never be a wizard.
	Though the cosm's magical level is respectable, there are a few 
places scattered all over the cosm that have a localized axiom boost.  
These areas are at Magic 20, and it is here that the most incredible of 
magics are performed:  the wish parsers of legend, jealously guarded by 
those mages and monsters who possess them (and the places they can be 
safely cast).
	Magic in Hardunathe was, at one time, not confined to the stodgy 
robed book-hoarders of Core Earth fiction.  There were many magical 
orders, traditions, and groups.  However, due primarily to the Law of 
Supremacy, they warred ceaselessly amongst themselves for control of the 
world's magic.  While a great many of these groups are gone now, little 
more than a biography or two in some far-off library, one important thing 
many of these groups had still exists:  the theorem of Community.  It is 
practiced by one of the remaining magical traditions, the Druids of the 
Southern Lands, who escaped with the last of the Free Kingdom fleet when 
High Lord Brokenridge completed his conquest of the cosm proper.

*Spiritual: 17

	Spiritual power, like magical power, has always been present in 
Hardunathe.  In many places in the world, prior to Brokenridge's rise to 
power, the line between mage and priest blurred due to the use of the 
Community theorem.  (In the Eternal Empire of High Lord Brokenridge, this 
is not the case.)  While many of those remarkable sects and orders are 
gone, some of their holy sites are not.  Sacred groves, springs, and 
caves are not unknown.  These places are known for the ability to grant 
miracles without the need for a community or priest, such as the Healing 
Waters of the Winter Spring in northern Hardunathe.  Brokenridge has 
order the priests to seek out these places and bring them to heel, 
converting them as they would a living heathen.

*Social: 15

	The first and only nation-state in this cosm is the High Lord's 
Eternal Empire.  Under Brokenridge's rule, this state grew from a bunch 
of tribes into a brutal, ambitious, aggressive, civilized, militaristic 
empire.  The High Lord sits as both supreme political and religious 
leader, donning the title of "Divine Emperor".  Due to his apparent 
immortality, the people of the Empire believe him to be a living avatar 
of their god.
	Imperial society, while centuries past their tribal beginnings, 
still shows those roots.  Men do the fighting, politicing, run the 
church, and make up most of the wizards.  Women are the backbone of the 
society.  They raise the children, manage the households, and take care 
of the day-to-day affairs of Imperial life.  All men are obligated by law 
to serve in the military, unless the church or a wizard takes him first, 
and until very recently most boys born to Imperial women came home from 
military service in a bronze urn.
	Due to millenia of experience with necromancy, the Empire (and 
most of the kingdoms conquered by it) practices cremation of the dead 
instead of burying corpses in the ground.  At this time, Brokenridge has 
limited knowledge of gospog.  He has brought up the issue with his senior 
advisors, but they have yet to come to a decision on what do yet.

*Technological: 13

	Hardunathe is a mature Tech 13 cosm.  The Empire has mastered the 
art of steel, making high-quality swords and armor for their legions of 
soldiers.  In addition, through the use of magic and magical metals, it 
is possible to build cybernetic-style prostetics.  However, most of the 
knowledge of this unique art of magical artiface was lost in the final 
battles with the last Free Kingdom.  Only one known artifact exist, and 
Brokenridge wears it.  The leader of the Eternal Empire wants to recover 
this knowledge, for he believes that this could give him a very fine edge 
over future opponents.



Date: Thu, 29 Feb 1996 04:41:36 -0600
From: "Corinth, aka James T Gleason" <glea0015@itlabs.umn.edu>
To: Multiple recipients of list <torg@buddha.intecom.com>
Subject: [TORG:183] Hardunathe v3.0, Part Two(World Laws)


	"When in Rome, do as the Romans do."
	
		- Anonymous

	Hardunathe is best summarized as a dark fantasy reality.  The 
laws of this cosm serve to reinforce the brutal, violent, and often 
confrontational approach to life that dominates here.

*The Law of Competance:

	This law eliminates all incompetant NPCs.  It is assumed that 
they died as a result of their ineptitude or quickly found another way to 
support themselves, whatever that may be.  This law punishes unskilled 
use, making failure a real bitch, and encourages focusing attention on 
honing the skills central to one's vocation.

	1)  Character Generation:  All Hardunaic templates aren't as 
flexible in initial skill distribution as those from other cosms.  Like 
martial artists, each template has somewhere between two and five skills 
that *must* be bought.  If a player spends the minimum one add, this 
requirement is fulfilled.  However, a player who spends two adds on all 
required skills may do one of two things.  The first option is to spend 
the remaining adds as normal; the second is to take the remaining adds 
and make them into attribute points at a ratio of two-to-one (round down) 
up to the limit values.
	2)  Character Development:  All Hardunaic templates recieve a 
point break for their tag skill and the required skills.  The cost is 
based on the *existing* number of skill adds, not the level being 
reached.  In addition, the attribute the tag skill is based upon recieves 
a point break of 25% up to the limit values.  That attribute may be 
bought *above* the limit; the first level is at standard cost and each 
level above the first is calculated at 3.25x instead of 3x.
	3)  Unskilled Attempts:  Using a skill a character has no adds in 
is harder to use.  Ords can't have reroll at all, and P-rated folks can't 
get a bonus number higher than the governing attribute w/o multiple dice 
rolls.  Failure is also harsh; failing automatically Stymies the poor 
soul, and a disastrous failure causes an automatic Setback.  Truly epic 
failures are a GM's Call.

*The Law of Supremacy:

	This law combines elements of the Tharkoldu Laws of Ferocity and 
Domination, but doesn't quite go to the same extremes that these two 
awesome laws reach.  The effect of this law is to make tolerance an 
almost foreign concept, as there can be only one way of doing anything.  
In effect, this is a scaled-down version of the Everlaw of One that 
affects culture, politics, history, and all things internal to the cosm 
rather than the cosm itself.

	1)  Conflicts:  Unlike the Law of Ferocity, one need not be in a 
literal combat to be affected.  Two philosophers debating a point is just 
as valid a conflict as two warriors fighting a duel so far as this law is 
concerned.  All that is required is that there be two or more opposing 
sides and a clear object of immediate contention.  A party in the 
conflict recieves an automatic Roll Again when they successful attempt to 
damage their foes.  This is defined below on the chart.

	*Combat:  Positive result points on non-physical Approved 
Actions; getting a K, O, K/O, KO, or Knockdown result; putting down a foe 
by wounds or shock.
	*Social:  Positive result points on Taunts, Charms, and 
Persuasion rolls in an oppossed contest of skills.  If the foe is making 
unskilled attempts he suffers from the Law of Competance as well.

	In addition, the concept of the duel is *very* well regarded in 
Hardunathe.  This is an encouraged outlet, and is not limited to just 
swordsmen.  Debates are also called "Theory Duels", and are far more 
confrontational than on Core Earth.  This is handled like a Martial Arts 
duel, with this bonus:  a character who succeeds at an Approved Action 
draws *two* cards, three if it was a Glorius result, in addition to the 
normal effects described above.
	Unlike the Law of Ferocity, characters recieve no bonuses to 
their skills or attributes.  Neither are they penalized in non-combat 
social interactions nor do they recieve surprise bonuses.

	2)  Sovereignty:  There can be only one ruler, one god, one
magical practice, one way of doing things, etc.  While the question of
how is dealt with above, this subclause dictates that it *must* be done!  
There can be no compromise, no tolerance, and no quarter given or taken.
This is the reason for the myriads of wars, great and small, that happen
throughout the history of this cosm until the unification-by-conquest of
Brokenridge and his Eternal Empire just recently.  Because of the power
granted by the Law of Resonance and honed by the Law of Competance, this
compells those individuals to seek one another out and war upon each
other.  It's a partial check on their numbers, a check that is now due
for a new day with the ascension of Divine Emperor Brokenridge I.

*The Law of Resonance:

	The people of this cosm believe in the Divine Right of Kings.  
This law is the source of that belief.  This isn't so much a morality law 
as it is a karmic law.  Being evil isn't going to punish a character any 
more than being good will reward him.  What matters is how much power a 
character wields and literally *how* he wields it.
	The reason for the belief of the Divine Right is because a ruler 
is mystically tied to his land.  Over time, he and the land change in 
look and feel until that king becomes the living personification of his 
land.  Rulers, being the supreme people of their holdings, wield great 
power and in return they are shaped by it.
	In practical terms the definition of "power-wielder" includes the 
following:  kings/rulers, mystics (priest or mage), and everyone who is 
P-rated.  If any one of them applies, they have a special psuedo-skill 
(like Aylish Honor and Corruption) called "Resonance" based off Spirit.  
The initial adds depend upon how many of those categories apply, and 
they can apply more than once.  (Yes, this means that a P-rated wizard- 
priest who's also a king would have at least six adds.)  Foreign 
characters entering Hardunaic reality automatically gain this skill at 
the appropriate number of adds and immediately suffer the effects.
	A character checks for Resonance whenever the following occurs:

	1)  He conquers a realm and/or becomes a ruler.
	2)  He has a Glory result.
	3)  He invents a new spell/miracle/theorem.
	4)  He slays someone with equal or higher Resonance.
	5)  He acquires a higher title, such as being knighted.
	6)  He gains his first add in Focus or a magic skill.
	7)  He gains an add in Reality, but only after transcending or 
transforming to Hardunaic reality.

	Even if he doesn't possess any adds, the character checks 
anyway.  While this is an unskilled attempt, it is the *only* attempt 
exempt from the Law of Competance.  He rolls against his current 
Resonance skill value.  If he succeeds, check the result points against 
the General Results Table.  Under most conditions, he only gains one 
add.  If he rolls a Spectacular or better result then he gains two adds.  
(No cards, Possibilities, or other rerolls/modifiers may be used save the 
standard ones for 10 and 20.)  If the character is an Ord, then he gains 
the Resonance skill at +1 add because of transcendance and has a number 
of Possibilities equal to half his Spirit.
	As one's Resonance grows, so does the power granted to him.  
Consult the table below for the benifits granted.

	+1:  Able to use Resonance Detection.
	+3:  May Roll Again once per adventure.
	+5:  May use Seize Initiative once per adventure.
	+7:  May invoke Second Chance once per adventure.
	+9:  May Inspire oneself once per adventure.
	+12:  May invoke Opponent Fails " " ".
	+15:  May Rally himself and his allies " " ".

	*Resonance Detection works identically to the Inclination 
Detection of the Nile Empire.

	As one's Resonance grows, so does the effects it has upon the 
body.  This is the only instance where good and evil factors in, as it 
changes ones appearance as if one had either Honor or Corruption at half 
the skill adds (round down).  In addition, the people of the cosm look to 
Resonance-endowed character for leadership and guidance.  Remember that 
most of those who have this skill do so because their are rulers or 
subordinates thereof.  Enforce the obligations they incurred.
	Resonance also affects the lands they rule and/or dwell within, 
having similiar effects, until (if the character stays in one place long 
enough) he epitomizes his homeland.  This accounts for the dark look and 
feel to the cosm as a whole, for Brokenridge now rules it all!



Date: Tue, 5 Mar 1996 01:24:06 -0600
From: "Corinth, aka James T Gleason" <glea0015@itlabs.umn.edu>
To: Multiple recipients of list <torg@buddha.intecom.com>
Subject: [TORG:232] Hardunathe v3.0, Part Three(High Lord)


       "Hey, hey, hey- clear the way!
	There's no escape from my authority.
	- I tell you-
	I am the one, the only one;
	I am the god of kingdom come.
	Gimme the prize- just gimme the prize!"

	- Queen, "Gimme The Prize"

	"Unification.  Conquest.  They both mean the same thing."

	- Beld, "Record of Lodoss War"

*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*

	The High Lord of Hardunathe- Divine Emperor Brokenridge I


	Strength: 17
	 Climbing-27, Lifting-27
	Dexterity: 19
	 Beast Riding-40, Dodge-35, Heavy Weapons-30, Long Jumping-29, 
Manuever-45, Melee Weapons-50, Missle Weapons-35, Running-29, Stealth-35,
Swimming-30, Unarmed Combat-45
	Toughness: 18
	Perception: 20
	 Find-30, First Aid-30, Language-35, Scholar (Politics)-45, 
Scholar (Strategy)-45, Scholar (Tactics)-45, Scholar (Hardunathe)-50,
Trick- 35, Water Vehicles-30.
	Mind: 20
	 Artist (Writing)-40, Survival-35, Test-40, Willpower-40.
	Charisma: 20
	 Charm-40, Persuasion-40, Taunt-40.
	Spirit: 22
	 Reality (Hardunathe)-42, Faith (HotASE)-32, Intimidation-42.
	Possibilities: 60 (more if he tapped his Darkness Device 
recently), plus those in his eternity shard.
	Equipment:  Enchanted black plate mail (+10/28; no fatigue), 
Dolmaya- the Demon Sword (bastard sword: +9/26 1-hnd./+12/29 2-hnd.), a 
coal-black destrier warhorse w/ saddle and gear, black plate barding (+7 
to horse's TOU), the prostetic hand of Lord Cedric Cammthril (an eternity 
shard), a golden crown, a signet ring.
	
	History:  The orc known as Divine Emperor Brokenridge I began his 
life as the son of a tribal chieftain over 700 years ago.  At that time, 
the orcs of Hardunathe were a scattered group of tribes fighting amongst 
each other in the wake of the Second War of Extinction.  His father ruled 
a small tribe, the Blood-Eyes, known for cunning and deceptive tactics.  
He was the second of five sons, so his father groomed him not as a leader 
of orcs, but as a battle-captain.  He took well to this education, and 
expressed his superior intelligence at an early age.  He went on his 
first raid at the age of 10, and led one at 13.  By the time of his 
wife-taking, at 16, he was a full-blooded member of the tribe and the 
favorite of many members both for his fighting prowess and for his 
tactical expertise.
	Surprisingly, he had no ambitions for anything other than 
faithfully serving his father and elder brother.  He had his dreams of 
grand conquest, of restoring the orc race to great stature and finishing 
the damned elves and dwarves once and for all time, but he knew them to 
be simple dreams- unless and until he could find a way to conquer his own 
people first.  Until that occurred, he would content himself by being the 
right-hand orc of the chieftain.
	In a cavern far away from the tribe's holdings, a shimmering 
black sword felt the frustration of the young orc prodigy.  It knew that 
this youth was the true master it required.  This sword was the Demon 
Sword, wielded by the leaders of the last two Extinction Wars who dared 
to oppose the imperialist elf-dwarf alliance, that Brokenridge learned of 
in the oral tradition of his people.  It's name was "Dolmaya", meaning 
"Dark Spirit" in the elf tongue, and it called out to him.
	Brokenridge took a band of his fellows and rode out to raid a 
neighboring tribe for their young women.  On the return trip, he 
subconciously led the raiding party and their captives to the cavern.  
Slaying the firelizard (a kind of wingless dragon) that took up residence 
since the original occupant left and died in the last war, they took the 
meager remains of the loot and camped for the night.  It was here that 
Brokenridge "found" Dolmaya.
	The sword revealed itself to its new High Lord, showing the young 
warlord the past two Extinction Wars and the ill-fated predecesors who 
went before him.  High Lord and Darkness Device attuned to each other, and
the next morning saw the victorious raider ride into camp with his 
prizes.  His brother, now chieftain, demanded that Brokenridge surrender 
Dolmaya to him.  He beheaded his brother in reply and took his place, and 
thus began the rise of Brokenridge from battle-captain to Divine Emperor.
	The next century is the time refered to in scholarly texts as 
"The Unification".  Brokenridge fought and conquered tribe after tribe, 
killing those who opposed him and absorbing the survivors.  It was during 
this period that the orcs evolved from a tribal to an early feudal 
society.  Brokenridge was crowned "King of Uruknor", parcelled the orc 
homeland to his trusted lieutenants and enobled them as warlords.  They, 
in turn, gave land to old thanes who were past their prime.  With the 
backing of the newly-formed Order of the All-Seeing Eye, these rulers 
were given the approval of their god and became tied to their lands.
	On his 125th birthday, King Brokenridge began the first of his 
invasions.  This period, called "The Northern Wars", marked the first 
conflict with a human kingdom.  They lasted a combined total of 75 years, 
and ended with Brokenridge establishing dominion over the conquered 
realms.  He expanded the nobility to include the new domains, and raised 
himself to the status of High King with the coronation of his son Saltha 
as King of Sturlund, and his own cornornation as High King of the Orc 
People.
	The rest of the cosm didn't fail to notice the wholesale warfare, 
so the refugees appealed to the High Kings of the Elf Nation and the 
Dwarf Realm.  They agreed, especially once they learned Dolmaya had 
resurfaced, and gathered their armies to march upon Brokenridge.  This 
marked the beginning, formally, of the Third/Final War of Extinction.
	The 500 years since then can be split into four periods.  The 
first was a time, about 50 years, of orc setbacks.  This ended when 
Brokenridge got innovative with his warfare and (independantly) developed 
many of the same ideas that Core Earth's Sun Tzu did.  This is also when 
he wrote down his thoughts on personal combat and tactics, which is now 
widely read and studied ala _The Book of Five Rings_ and _The Tao of Jeet 
Kune Do_ in Imperial schools.  He recovered all the lost territory and 
conquered the Dwarf Realm.  This second period, also lasting about 50 
years, was the last period of all-out warfare between the powers for some 
time.
	With both sides exhausted, they scaled-back to border wars and 
covert actions.  This period lasted 100 years, and introduced the High 
Lord to P-raiding.  Brokenridge observed that he needed his armies to be 
on a constant level of readiness, and simple training and rotation was 
not enough for this need.  Dolmaya helped its High Lord to make use of 
maelstrom bridges and stelae, singled out a simple cosm, and Brokenridge 
made his first P-raid.  This cosm, recorded as "Simia" due to the 
predominant life-form (monkeys, gorillas, etc.) fell within a decade to
the might of the High Kingdom, even after accounting for the many mistakes
made by Brokenridge and his men.  Brokenridge, remarking at the increase 
of Resonating thanes due to this most unusual war, rotated most of the 
veterans of this campaign to the front made two more raids.  (The victims 
were Trogland, a cosm where trogladytes became the dominant race, and 
Giantland- what Core Earthers would call the "Primal Rage" cosm.)
	The overall increase in Resonating orc warriors was slim (maybe 
5%), but the influx of P-energy was a godsend.  The next 350 years, to 
the foes of Brokenridge, seemed as if his orc armies were an avalanche 
and they were the poor fools in the path.  One dominion after another 
fell, again and again, until a single kingdom remained.  This was the 
Kingdom of Hardunathe (for which this cosm is currently named), and by
then Brokenridge had further refined his state into a nation-state (the 
Empire) with himself at the head.  With the entirety of the cosm's free 
peoples compressed into an area about one-third of the U.S. (as oppossed 
to a land mass the size of Panagea), this proved to be a tough nut to 
crack.
	Victory came in the form of the Great Red Wyrm, Khirmalla 
(pronounced KEER-mah-lah), the oldest known dragon in the cosm.  Securing 
its power with the help of Dolmaya, Brokenridge rode the titanic beast 
into battle.  Within a year of its arrival, the last Free Kingdom was 
gone.  The few survivors fled by ship away from the continent to 
someplace unknown.  (This could be another cosm, a pocket dimension, or 
both.)  In the few decades between the completion of his conquest and the 
beginning of the P-Wars, he consolidates his power throughout the cosm 
and makes a sucessful raid upon the cosm of Redland (similar to the Mars 
of E.R. Burroughs' _John Carter of Mars_ series).
	After returning from this raid, he discovered both a Kanawa spy 
in his court back in Uruknor and the existance of Core Earth.  He decided 
not to invade, but rather to send his scouts into Core Earth to explore and 
assess the situation.  (A total of 100 orcs, split into 20 teams of five, 
were sent.  Since the start of the wars, 25 of them were killed in action 
and another 25 are missing.)  He hasn't decided to invade or not yet, as 
he's quite wary of his fellow High Lords.

	Goals and Ambitions:

	1)  Make a Decision About Invasion:  Brokenridge must make a firm 
decision about whether or not to invade Core Earth.  If he decides to 
spare Core Earth, he might invade one of the High Lord's cosms instead.  
(Takta Ker looks inviting to him, as does Marketplace.)
	2)  Keep His Cosm a Secret:  He has ordered his scouts to claim
they are from Aysle, or Avalon if an Aylish character is present.  He 
knows that his existance, if revealed, would force his hand and wishes to 
prevent that.  (That Kanawa spy didn't return to report his findings.)
	3)  Explore Core Earth:  More than any other cosm encounted, this 
one intrigues and facisnates him.  While he hasn't personally travelled 
to the warzone of the P-wars, he has studied the field reports intently 
and finds the richness of diversity both shocking and threatening.  Not 
since he was a child has Brokenridge been so taken with something new.
	4)  Assess His Sitaution:  This is a catch-all for everything 
else, covering something simple like finding some time for his latest 
mistress all the way up to decide what he wants to do now that he's 
attained his dream of world-conquest.

	The Darkness Device, Dolmaya:

	Strength: 0
	Dexterity: 0
	Toughness: 200
	Perception: 20
	Mind: 40
	Charisma: 25
	Spirit: 40
	
	Possibilities:  At any given time, several thousand.
	Powers:  All listed in the Torg rulebook, and in addition it can 
absorb P-energy from those it slays in combat.  (Simply put, if it kills 
a "living" being it absorbs the P-energy and devours the soul.)  It can 
also detect, with a red glow, those people (SKs) and things (Shards) 
aligned to Aperios within 15 miles.  (The sole exception is the HLs metal 
hand.)



Date: Wed, 6 Mar 1996 04:55:46 -0600
Errors-To: torg-owner@buddha.intecom.com
Reply-To: torg@buddha.intecom.com
Originator: torg@buddha.intecom.com
Sender: torg@buddha.intecom.com
Precedence: bulk
From: "Corinth, aka James T Gleason" <glea0015@itlabs.umn.edu>
To: Multiple recipients of list <torg@buddha.intecom.com>
Subject: [TORG:252] Hardunathe v3.0, Part Four(Mechanics and Miscellania)
X-Listprocessor-Version: 6.0c -- ListProcessor by Anastasios Kotsikonas
X-Comment: The Torg Mailing List


	"'Couldn't you think of some really snazzy quote for this?
	'Nope.  My selection isn't that big, and I didn't feel like
	making one up.  I'll fix it in the next version."

		- Corinth & Friends, "Talkin' 'Bout Hardunathe"

*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*

	Character Creation

	To be a cosm native of Hardunathe is to be an orc, most of the 
time.  Humans, elves, dwarves, and other fantastic races exist in small 
numbers here and there.  These are often used in slave-level capacities,
with the elves and dwarves often kept as specialist slaves much like Race 
slave scientists in Tharkold.  Those who are free are granted legal 
Imperial citizenship and may make his way in the Empire like any orc 
can.  Those who are taken by a magical order automatically gain 
citizenship (lest the wizards come down and blast you to pieces), and the 
clerics are often given the same consideration.
	Orcs have limit values of 13 on their attributes, just like 
humans do in Core Earth.  Elves and dwarves have identical values to 
their Aylish counterparts.  All beginning characters have the normal 16 
skill points and 10 Possibilities.  In addition they begin with +1 add in 
Resonance free of charge.  Those who begin the game as magic users have 
the normal 12 points to by AKs and spells.
	As mentioned under the LoCompetance, the spending of initial 
skill points is restricted.  Each template, examples of which will be 
posted later, have two to five required skills which *must* be bought.  
At least one skill add have to be allocated to each skill.  The rest may 
be spent normally, with the exception of Resonance.  One additional add 
of Resonance may be bought.  This costs two adds *AND* one Possibility. This 
usually represents a noble title gained before play, such as knighthood,
or becoming a mystic (cleric/mage).
	
	Wizards and "The Gift"

	Unlike Aysle, the ability to use magic is limited to those who 
possess an inheirited trait.  In Core Earth terms, this is a (very) 
recessive genetic trait and often sex-linked to the mother.  If one does 
not possess this gift, one can *never* use magic (i.e. gain an add in a 
magic skill).  This results in wizards being both rare and powerful, 
despite the high Magic axiom, leading (in concert with the LoSupremacy) 
to many secretive magical orders who exert political power far in excess 
of their numbers.  (Who wants to mess with demon-summoning power-mongers, 
especially when you can't defend against their magics?)
	A PC Hardunaic wizard must, at character creation, spend five 
skill adds and five Possibilities to become a wizard.  Three of those 
adds goes towards the tag skill, which *must* be a magic skill, while the 
remaining two go towards raising the initial Resonance adds to +2.  Two 
of the five spent Possibilities go towards the Resonance add, while the 
other three are spent on the Gift itself.  There is no adventure cost to 
being a mage.  Yes, this means that only P-rated folks become wizards.

	The Clergy of the Imperial Church of He of the All-Seeing Eye

	A PC Hardunaic cleric is slightly better off.  He spends a total 
of five skill adds (two on Resonance, three on Faith(HotASE)) and two 
Possibilities (Resonance add).  In addition, he is required to put one 
add in Focus and one in Scholar(HotASE).  Since his miracles are not 
magic _per se_, he does not require The Gift.

	New Skills (Sort Of...)

	*Scholar (Order of Luingul):  This subset of the Scholar skill 
covers the history, traditions, and laws of the dominant magical 
tradition in the Empire- the Grand Order of the Brotherhood of Luigul 
(pro: LOO-in-ghoul).  It is a required skill in the (yet to be posted) 
example wizard template.  An example of this skill would be answering a 
question like "Why do all your members were royal blue robes?" ("It is in 
honor of our founder, the blue-clad elf for whom we are named and from 
whom our magic decends.")

	*Scholar (HotASE):  This skill covers the rituals, teachings, 
dogma, and practices of the Imperial Church.  It is a required skill of 
the example cleric template.

	*Magical Artiface:  This currently-lost skill covers the gap 
between the Magic and Tech axioms, allowing for rare and unique creations 
such as Brokenridge's prostetic hand.  This skill, because of its need 
for magic, can only be used by a P-rated character and is contradictory 
outside of Hardunathe.  It's based off Mind.  No NPCs in Hardunathe have 
this skill, but certain enslaved survivors have told their Imperial 
masters that the knowledge lives on with those who escaped and fled the 
cosm proper.
