From: jmiguel@cco.caltech.edu (John Miguel Baker) 
Subject: HiveWorld 
Date: Thu Jun 02 22:06:46 EST 1994 


Position: Mother's Chamber 
Persons: Mother, Drone, AFN-00283-OKF Designate "Roy", DKH-38429-OGD  
         Designate "Mmann-Tra" 

"AFN-00283-OKF Designate 'Roy' reporting." 
"Deliver." 
"Self-same non-society discovered, named Aysle." 
"Something's wrong?" 
"Aysle is dangerous. They divide power up by archaic lineage technique. 
Magictreason is commonplace. Possibility control present, in Darkness Device: 
Drakacanus." 
"We have a friend for you, Drone." 
-- Drakacanus is weak --- 
"DKH-38429-OGD Designate 'Mmann-Tra' reporting." 
"Deliver." 
"Aysle is connected to another non-society: Earth." 
"There's more, isn't there?" 
"Earth is connected to multiple non-societies. All with Darkness Devices." 
"My, my, Drone, we have a family reunion..." 
-- You jest -- 
"But, Mmann-Tra, the other non-societies are invading Earth?" 
"It would seem so." 
"Why, then, let us bring them all society. Find population centers." 
"Yes, Mother." 
"I will assist, Mother." 
"Good for you, Roy." 

Welcome to the Hive. Mother is part of us all. 
I've got a ton more background, but first, the important stuff: Axioms and 
Laws. 

Magic: 13 
  Hiveworld used to be a magical world, similar in history to Aysle, up to 
the breaking of the Sword of Dunad. Many interesting effects are possible 
and are supported by Hiveworld, but very little of it is actually used. 
Magic is considered treason in Hiveworld, and thus is subject to the Law 
of Order and Chaos, explained below. 

Social: 28 
  Hiveworld is a utopia in the truest sense of the world. Anything is 
available to anyone at any time. Money has been outmoded. Life is good 
for anyone who simply follows the laws, and since the society works, why 
rebel? Everyone only takes what they need. In return, everyone gets what 
they want. All races and species work together in harmony. There is no 
such thing as a "lower class." A rebellion is possible, but any signs of 
dissension are quickly found and removed without difficulty. Only about 
one out of a thousand people would entertain a thought that might cause 
crime, but most of them turn themselves in for reprogramming in order to 
help society. 

Spiritual: 2 
  Religion is not a consideration in Hiveworld. The spiritual mindset is 
in general like this: You are created. You spend your life helping society 
and society in return helps you. When you become nonfunctional or non-
productive, you are removed, recycled, and your mass is returned in a useful 
form. Afterlife is not thought about, but enough spirituality is left to 
allow for devotion to a way of life. 

Technological: 28 
  Persons are either born or vatgrown with purposes genetically encoded. 
Any nonliving item is manufactured from its component subatomic particles 
and then teleported to wherever it is needed. Artificial intelligence is 
commonplace, but usually unnecessary, being replaced with any naturally 
occurring intelligence. Weapons usually involve the generation and storage 
of subatomic plasma. Mass-to-energy and energy-to-mass conversion is 
needed and constantly used, as part of the Law of Artificiality. 

World Laws: 

Law of Artificiality: 
  Everything in Hiveworld is either a living being, an artificial item, 
or subatomic mass/plasma. Anything "natural" quickly decomposes into plasma, 
including most kinds of food, leather, furs, and corpses. Normally, any 
nonfunctional living being in Hiveworld is teleported into the holding tanks, 
to be recycled into whatever is needed. Items decompose quickly, creating a 
radiation hazard if not disposed of. Roll a bonus number to the time since 
an item has been brought in, and this is the damage value that anything in 
contact with the now decomposing item takes. Yes, things go bad on the 
order of seconds here.  

Law of the Net Mind: 
  All minds can be accessed and examined by the most loyal members of the 
Hive. If someone wishes to know what another is thinking about, the "Thought 
Police" person must generate a Faith(the Hive) total anc compare this to the 
target's Willpower and distance value added together. Minimal: Know only the 
most important thought on the target's mind at the moment. Average: Know 
all present thoughts of the target. Good: Understand all emotional 
attachments to these thoughts. Superior: Gain access to memories. 
Spectacular: the editing of present thoughts can be accomplished by 
another successful use of Faith. This law is passive: the Thought Police can 
access anyone of any cosm in Hiveworld, but outside Hiveworld the Police can 
access only other Hiveworlders. 

Law of Order and Chaos: 
  All actions that reaffirm society become more orderly in nature; all 
actions against society become chaotic in nature. Divination Magic, being 
treasonous and thus against society, is a contradiction, as knowledge 
implies understanding and order in the Hive. A new skill, Illusion Magic, 
takes its place. Illusion magic makes understanding more difficult for 
those around the caster. Also, any magical spellis subject to wild surges, 
similar to Core Earth magic. Other than magic, other actions against 
society include the accosting of any citizen without proof of treason, 
and any action taken with the goal and actual possibility of going against 
society. (pulling up stelae, planting glory seeds for a cosm other than 
Hiveworld, use your best judgement) Basically, bizarre effects will befall 
the traitor: reliable items may malfunction, a broken item may work 
temporarily, be original and random, but remember: no order may be a result. 
Rebel bands will fall apart into anarchy within days.
   Order, on the other hand, has created an interesting tool: the subroutine. 
A person, faithful to society, may program oneself to perform a specific 
action or series of actions in order to achieve a societal goal. The 
subroutine may be as long or as complex as you like, and you get a bonus 
for all the actions in the subroutine equal to the power push of the time 
value for the subroutine. The side effect is once you've started a 
subroutine, you can't get out of it until the routine is over. For example, 
Designate "Henri" tells a minute long speech to a group of Cyberpapal 
citizens about the benefits of the Hive. Henri gets a +3 (I think) bonus 
to his Persuasion roll, but if the Inquisition arrives 30 seconds through 
the speech, he'll still deliver the rest of his spiel, even if he is being 
shot at, until he is done. 

It still needs work, but I'm getting there... 

John Baker 
Mother is part of us all. 

