From: Del Webb <Del.Webb@m.cc.utah.edu> 
Subject: A new pocket dimension (humor) 
Date: Fri Jun 10 02:42:49 EST 1994 


  With this pocket dimension contest and all, I'm surprised that none of 
you detailed the pocket cosm that exists right here, in the real world.  
I'm referring, of course, to that bizarre version of reality known as... 

HOLLYWOOD 

Hollywood is a pocket dimension located in Southern California.  The 
pocket has existed for many years now, and is well known around the world. 
 The bizarre denizens of this dimension (known as 'starlets') interact with 
Core Earthers daily, their sole purpose to provide entertainment. 

              
AXIOMS 

  Tech 24:  Special effects technology has pushed the tech axiom of this 
dimension above the Core Earth level.  The dimension is also highly 
advanced in medicine, especially cosmetic surgery.  However, their 
advancement is limited in other areas.  Most of the denizens have a 
minimal grasp of basic scientific, economic, and/or practical concepts, 
perhaps due to the effects of the Law of Vapid Good Looks (see below). 

  Social 19:  The social axiom is slightly lower than that of Core Earth.  
Hollywood is organized into a strict caste hierarchy, with beings known 
as "producers" at the top.  Producers can be independent, or may band 
together.  Below producers are "directors", mid-level authority figures 
who interact with the common starlet.  After directors come "big-name 
stars", who are the starlets who most commonly benefit from the Law of 
Temporary Heroism (below).  Next come "supporting actors/actresses", and 
then the lowest caste, which is actually referred to as simply "cast". 
  There is another group of beings who live in Hollywood, who are outside 
of the caste system.  These are referred to as "crew", and are not 
recognized by the other starlets of Hollywood except during a special 
annual ceremony held in honor of the god Oscar (see Spiritual Axiom, 
below).  Being out of the caste system means that crew are often not 
subject to the world laws of Hollywood, including the Law of Vapid Good 
Looks and the Law of Artificiality. 
  Note that the caste system is not entirely rigid; sometimes big-name 
stars will work their way up to being in the director or producer caste, 
or a former supporting actress will become a big-name star (usually 
through the divine favor of the Big Break; see Spiritual below). 

  Spiritual 4:  Hollywood has little spirituality to it.  There are a few 
dieties, but they do not grant miracles, nor do they have an organized 
clergy.  Hollywood has a polytheistic arrangement in which any starlet may 
pay tribute to one or more of these dieties at any one time.  The most 
well-known of these dieties is called Oscar.  Revered by starlets from the 
highest producer to the lowest crew, Oscar is best known for his annual 
ceremony in which certain starlets from all levels of society are gifted 
with golden idols which bear Oscar's image.  Other dieties, such as 
Tony and Emmy, hold a similar ceremony, but Oscar reigns supreme. 
  The other powers of Hollywood are actually philosophies and concepts.  
One will often hear starlets speaking in respectful tones about the Silver 
Screen, the Big Break, the twin gods Gross and Net, and a favorite among 
the big-name star caste, Sequel. 

  Magic 24:  Hollywood reeks of magical energy.  It is well known that 
Hollywood is where the magic happens.  It is the place where wishes come 
true.  Yet none of the denizens of Hollywood can actually consciously tap 
this enormous amount of magical energy.  There are several people who are 
able to tap into Divination Magic (known as astrologers and fortunetellers, 
they can be identified by the honorific "Madame" placed before their first 
name). 
  Scholars have theorized (Core Earth scholars, of course.  Hollywood 
cannot support this level of thought due to the Law of Vapid Good Looks) 
that the gods of Hollywood dislike the use of magical energy, as punish 
those who do.  It is well known that a particularly famous director named 
Steven Spielburg used alteration magic in his films in order to induce the 
maximum possible emotional effect in the viewers.  Despite the enormous 
popularity of many of his works, the god Oscar denied him recognition for 
many years. 

World Laws 

Law of Artificiality:  Nothing in Hollywood is organically based.  
Clothing is synthesized, food is mass-produced, and plants are made of a 
highly-advanced plastic (a primitive form of this plastic, known as 
Astroturf, is found in many sports stadiums).  Even the denizens of 
Hollywood thenselves are not real.  Starlets seem to be comprised entirely 
of a substance called silicone. 
  The Law of Artificiality also extends to mental structures.  No emotions 
are actually felt here; the appropriate responses to a stimuli are 
memorized and recited.  Responses to situations, both common and unusual, 
are also preset.  These responses are programmed into starlets during 
training sessions called "rehearsals".  This has benefits and 
disadvantages.  Starlets have an automatic +3 to any non-combat 
interaction they attempt, because they have all of the best taunts, 
tricks, and intimidations memorized.  However, they receive a -3 penalty 
if they are the target of a non-combat interaction which does not involve 
a cliched phrase, since their minds cannot handle the fact that the 
interaction was "not in the script".  Starlets who purchase the skill 
Artist (Ad Lib) can negate this penalty with a successful skill check 
against the relevant skill value of the opponent. 

Law of Vapid Good Looks:  Everyone in Hollywood (with the possible 
exception of the crew; see above) looks good.  The males are tall and 
muscular, the females curvaceous.  Hairstyles are always perfect, and 
nobody ever sees a tanline.  But the down side is that everyone in 
Hollywood is dumb as a post. 
  In game terms, a starlet must purchase either two three-point 
enhancement packages which can only be applied to Charisma.  The starlet 
must then take a limit of 7 on their Mind value; they cannot pay an 
adventure cost for the package.  If desired, a starlet may buy a third 
Charisma package, but must then limit their Mind to 4 or less and must 
have blond hair.  Note that there is no upper attribute limit on Charisma 
in Hollywood (all other attributes have limits of 13). 

Law of Temporary Heroism:  All beings in Hollywood are Ords.  There are, 
however, occasions when certain starlets can perform amazing feats of 
daring and bravery, but only when it is being recorded.  Starlets who 
belong to the big-name star or the supporting actor/actress caste receive 
the benefits of this world law. 
  Any time a big-name star or supporting actor/actress has an active 
camera pointed at them (this must be a camcorder or movie camera, not 
still-photo), that starlet will become _temporarily_ possibility-rated.  
The starlet will gain the reality skill as well as the appropriate 
increases to attributes and skills until one of two things happens: 
        1.  The camera stops working for any reason. 
        2.  Someone from the director caste yells "Cut!" 
  Big-name stars receive an additional benefit.  When a big-name star 
becomes possibility-rated, they will start with twice as many 
possibilities as a supporting actor or actress, and can spend two 
possibilities on one action (this is identical to the Law of Action in the 
Nile Empire). 

New Skills 

Artist (Ad Lib):  The starlet is skilled in coming up with unmemorized 
responses.  Successful use of this skill negates the penalty imposed by 
the Law of Artificiality.  However, since it is a Mind skill, the Law of 
Vapid Good Looks ensures that this will almost never happen. 

Photo Ops:  This Dex-based skill allows a starlet to position themselves 
in such a way as to gain maximum exposure whenver a photograph is taken.  
The starlet may also use this skill to expose nearby people in a similar 
manner.  If bystanders are unwilling to have their picture taken, the 
starlet can generate a Photo Ops skill total against the bystander's 
Maneuver or Dexterity value.  If successful, the starlet will manage to 
get the resistant character in a clear shot, usually with the starlet's 
arm aroung their shoulder in a friendly sort of way.  More than one Nippon 
agent has been uncovered this way. 

Contract Negotiation:  This Perception skill allows a starlet to gain the 
maximum possible value from a contract.  Contracts are usually signed 
between producers and lower caste members.  Use the rules for haggling 
when negotiating a contract, substituting the starlet's Contract 
Negotiation skill for Persuasion. 
  Contracts often contain many religious references, as the producers and 
big-name stars negotiate over who gets what percentage of the bounty of 
Gross and Net, or as directors try to convince producers to invoke the power 
of Sequel.    

Medicine (Cosmetic):  This Mind skill allows a doctor to alter the 
appearance of any starlet in order to make them more attractive.  Facial 
features can be altered, fat cells removed, or unsightly hairs ripped out. 
 Successful use of the Medicine (Cosmetic) skill allows a being to 
increase their Charisma by one.  This benefit can only be received once.  
Note that this skill cannot be used to treat injuries or heal wounds. 

Astrology/Fortunetelling:  Allows the user to predict the future by 
reading the stars, interpreting Tarot cards, gazing into a crystal ball, 
contacting the spirits, etc.  Substitute the skill value for a 
Divination/(arcane knowledge) skill value.  The arcane knowledge used 
depends on what type of information is desired and its source.  Select an 
appropriate spell from Pixaud's, but lower the difficulty and backlash by 
four each (to reflect the higher magic axiom). 
  Example:  A supporting actress goes to see Madame Wanda.  Madame Wanda 
decides to contact the spirits.  She generates an Astrology/Fortunetelling 
total of 19.  She may now gain information as if she cast a divination spell 
with a difficulty of 23 or less.  In this instance, she would probably choose  
divination/entity or possibly divination/death.  If later Madame Wanda 
decides to use her crystal ball to see the future, she might try to use a 
divination/time spell. 
              

  Hope you enjoy! 

  Del Webb

