Ideal

  This is another of the realities created in response to the Pocket 
Dimensions contest announced in _Infiniverse Newsletter_ vol 1 #39.

-----
Newsgroup: alt.games.torg #1477 
From: David J Oakes <oake0010@gold.tc.umn.edu>
Subject: ideal (pocket) cosm (LONG!) 
X-Gated-By: The Black Marble Wombat@cool.khis.com 
Date: Thu Jun 16 23:46:34 EST 1994 

well, since everyone else is doing it, why cant i?  (because i have a 
really f**ked system that doesnt believe in text uploads, thats why) 

"but dave," i hear you cry, "it's too long, its not a pocket cosm, and 
they already have a toon cosm to boot!" 

1) i just cant shut up (there is at least three things more i wanted to add) 
2) got me there 
3) their so called toon cosm is beneath even "pella god-inay" in contempt 

but anyway, as i told them, this was my last chance to contribute 
something to TORG (from the survey WEG posted, TORG is dead, long live 
RIFTS...), so i had to try. 

dave "not bad, as swan songs go" oakes 

"Once upon a time, there was Nothing.  Nothing was all 
alone, because there wasn't anything to be with it of 
course.  And then along came Aperios, who was everything, 
and asked "What is your name?"  and Nothing replied "I do 
not have one," because Nothing could not have something, or 
it would not be Nothing, it would be something.  And so 
Aperios said, "Then I shall call you The Nameless One."  At 
first, Nothing was happy.  But the more it watched Aperios, 
the sadder it got.  Aperios had everything, and would not 
let The Nameless One have any of it.  "Go away," Aperios 
said, "I cannot talk to you, for you have no name.  I can 
only play with things that have names."  And The Nameless 
One was very sad.  "I know," thought The Nameless One, "I 
will make Aperios go away, and then I will be Nothing again, 
and I will be happy."  So The Nameless One gave names to 
parts of itself, which became Darkness, which we call 
Devices, and sent them to Aperios to make it go away.  And 
these Darkness Devices went to the cosms that were parts of 
Aperios, and found people who wanted technological marvels, 
religious and economic power, and even the perfect fear, and 
promised these people all of these things if they would make 
Aperios go away.  And the Darkness Devices and their High 
Lords were all happy.  All except one Darkness Device.  This 
Darkness Device was the first to be named, and was the 
favorite of The Nameless One.  But it was still unhappy.  
For in the cosm that this Darkness Device went to, the 
inhabitants did not want anything.  They did not want 
technological marvels because anything they could think of 
they could have.  They did not want power over one another 
because they knew that was Bad.  And they didn't even know 
what fear was because they were never too hot and never too 
cold and never ever ever died.  And the inhabitants 
recognized that this Darkness Device was Bad too, and would 
not play with it because it did not play well with others.  
And so this Darkness Device sat.  Sat.  Sat.  Sat.  And this 
Darkness Device begged to be played with.  Begged.  Begged.  
Begged.  And this Darkness Device demanded to be played 
with.  Yelled.  Yelled.  Yelled.  But the Ideals wouldn't 
play with it, because it was Bad and did not play well with 
others.  And so this Darkness Device went mad.  Mad.  Mad.  
Mad.  So mad that it even forgot its own name, given to it 
first by The Nameless One itself.  And in madness came 
inspiration - if no one in this cosm would play with it, 
then it would find someone in another cosm that would!  And 
so this Darkness Device began to look in other cosms for 
someone that would play with it.  But the other cosms all 
had Darkness Devices already in them, and those Darkness 
Devices had names, and enjoyed the games they played with 
their High Lords, and didn't want Aperios to go away and 
leave them with nothing.  And so they drove it away, and 
told it never to return.  But there was one cosm without a 
Darkness Device.  In this cosm it found a man.  And this man 
drew pictures that looked a lot like the Ideals that it 
hated.  In these pictures the Ideals were crushed under 
anvils, or made all black and crumbly by dynamite, or 
punctured clean through by giant bullets.  And that made 
this Darkness Device very happy, for it knew that it had 
found someone that would play with it, someone to be it's 
High Lord.  And so the man went with this Darkness Device to 
the cosm of the Ideals.  He was no longer the man whose name 
flashed by so fast in the credits that even a VCR with super 
slo-mo doesn't help.  No, he was The Man Who Draws Things, 
The Man With The Power!  And he would use the Ideals to 
bring life to his visions, and prove his genius to the 
world, and the entire Infiniverse too!  And so this Darkness 
Device and The Man Who Draws Things lived happily ever 
after, and they are really the only important ones, right?" 
- The Ideal Darkness Device, called The Other Nameless One, 
relating the events of its existence to no one in 
particular, just talking, la de da - oh!  what nice 
flowers... 

The Ancient Greek philosopher Plato talks of a higher plane 
of existence populated not by items but their ideal 
representations, of which everything we see is just a pale 
shadow.  Many American Indian tribes speak of animals that 
can talk and stones that can move.  And the Aborigines of 
Australia believe that there is a place behind reality, one 
reached by dreams, where anything can be created just by 
singing it into being.  Is the Ideal Cosm the basis for 
these beliefs?  Maybe.  Or maybe it did not even exist until 
the 1940s when enough Core Earth children saw the images 
moving on the Saturday matinee screen and believed they were 
real?  Maybe  it is all of these, and more.  The Infiniverse 
is a very big place, and reality can be a very tricky thing 
sometimes... 

The Axioms of the Ideal Cosm: 
Tech:  0
There is nothing Unliving in the Ideal cosm, some things 
just move slower than others.  The very act of being 
unliving is a contradiction.  The tech axiom must have been 
higher at some point, since the inhabitants all remember 
sticks and stones and televisions and cosmic zap guns and 
machines that go ping.  But with the ability to just make 
what ever you wanted out of thin air, the Tech axiom fell 
like a rock.  And now the average Ideal can't even tell you 
how a rock works.  In fact, while the items that the Ideals 
use look like real tech (and occasionally Weird Science 
gizmos) on the outside, on the inside they are homogeneous 
gray matter - the same as the Ideals and everything else in 
the cosm except for it's High Lord and Darkness Device - 
with no mechanism of action whatsoever. 
Social:  28 
Due to their World Laws the Ideals quickly developed a 
society where everyone was treated fairly and equally, even 
to the point of evil being a contradiction.  The Darkness 
Device has tried very hard to get rid of this, but has only 
been able to reduce it by a few points. 
Magic: 21  
Spirit: 21 
The Ideal reality is very "soft" and bends easily to a 
strong will or belief.  Whether this is a cause or a 
consequence of the World Laws is unknown. 

The World Laws of the Ideal Cosm: 

The Law of Karma - Like many of the known cosms, the Ideal 
Cosm is quick to define Good and Evil, and the interplay 
between them.  But unlike other cosms, the balance is not 
equal, and is in fact weighted heavily towards Good.  
Possibility energy flowed freely through those who respected 
the rights of others and did not seek to harm any living 
thing.  This quickly drove the Social axiom upwards, to the 
point that the cosm didn't only help the Good, but actively 
tried to squash Evil.  This was one of the first things that 
The Other Nameless One tried to change upon gaining a High 
Lord, with somewhat limited success.  In game terms, every 
Ideal gets a certain number of free possibilities that are 
used by the GM - without the player's knowledge - when she 
feels that the character deserves a little help  beyond 
their own possibilities and cards.  These possibilities can 
be used to buy off damage, counter a possibility spent by an 
opponent, or even negate a setback result against the 
character or increase a roll that could otherwise fail, 
which normal possibilities cannot do.  If the GM feels that 
a setback would be too disastrous, she may negate the effect 
- for that character only - by spending a Karma possibility.  
If she feels that a character shouldn't fail at a task, she 
can spend a Karma possibility after the result as been 
determined, and add her own die roll to the character's to 
create a new total.  The total number of possibilities that 
may be spent in this fashion each act of play is listed as 
the Karma skill.  The skill, like Orrorshan Corruption, does 
not have a base statistic like other skills.  Only the 
number of "adds" need be recorded.  All Ideals start with 
one Karma, which cannot be increased with possibilities.  
Non-Ideals cannot gain the Karma skill during play except 
through transformation to the Ideal reality.  Should the GM 
consistently spend the character's full Karma during each 
act of an adventure, she should consider increasing that 
character's Karma limit by one for furture adventures.  The 
Karma limit will never go down, but the GM should not feel 
obliged to spend all of the Karma for a character that is 
not "playing well with others." 
Another aspect of the Law of Karma is Instant Karma.  Any 
act that intends harm - physical, emotional, whatever - to 
another being immediately creates a setback result for the 
offending character.  This setback usually manifests as a +3 
or +5 increase to a difficulty, or loss of the action 
entirely, but when combined with setbacks from the Drama 
Deck or skill results might cause a sixteen ton weight to 
appear from nowhere and squash the character flat!  (Note 
that Instant Karma will never kill a character, but it 
should make a point.)  The only inroad The Other Nameless 
One has had in eliminating the Law of Karma is in Instant 
Karma.  A character will not suffer the effects of Instant 
Karma if the intended victim has attacked them first, or if 
they for some reason ask for it, during the current act.  
Note that if Ideal A attacks Ideal B, Ideal B may now attack 
Ideal A without Instant Karma retribution for the remainder 
of the act, but then Ideal A will be able to attack Ideal B 
as well!  Instant Karma effects both natives and visitors to 
the Ideal reality.  There is no limit to the number of 
setbacks that may effect a character in an act. 
It is due to the influence of this Law that martial arts was 
never developed by the Ideals, even though their axioms 
support it.  But with exposure to cosms such as Marketplace 
and the change in the Law regarding Instant Karma this is 
changing.  In fact, The Man Who Draws Things has found that 
a certain pair of Japanese Storm Knights are quite adept at 
mindless destruction on a planetary scale, even though they 
claim it's not their fault... 
Note:  A mechanic for setting a Karma limit is not provided 
because Karma is not granted through a lucky roll of a die 
or through a high spirit, and the GM is urged to be careful 
in awarding an increase.  Three Karma is reccomended for 
those characters that are really having fun, but not at 
another's expense.  Five Karma should be only for those 
characters that really make the game enjoyable for everyone. 

The Law of Ideal - This is the basis of the Ideal reality.  
This is the law that gives physical form to concepts and 
makes thought and reality synonymous.  Because of this, the 
Ideal cosm is "softer" than other cosms, allowing for the 
constant changes by The Man Who Draws Things.  But it also 
allows the Ideals to have anything they want, go anywhere 
they want, and be anything they want!  In game terms, this 
law powers three skills unique to the Ideal Cosm:  Ideal 
body, Have Object, and Be There.  None of these skills may 
be used unskilled. 
Ideal Body (MIN) - This skill grants an Ideal physical form.  
All Ideals must start with at least one add, and it can only 
be gained during play by characters who physically transform 
to the ideal reality.  Though an Ideal takes shock, KO, and 
knockdown normally; wounds are determined using the value of 
the Ideal Body skill instead of TOU.  The Ideal may also use 
this skill instead of TOU when healing wounds.  Ideals still 
go unconscious when their shock exceeds their TOU, 
regardless of their Ideal Body skill.  Ideals may also alter 
their size and/or shape with this skill (difficulty equal to 
the Ideal's MIN), but these changes are purely cosmetic and 
have no effect on the Ideal's characteristics (see Have 
Object).  Most Ideals are so well adjusted that they are 
very happy with the appearance they have, and rarely change 
it.  And while an Ideal body does not have to eat, sleep, or 
breathe, it is solid and cannot therefore pass through other 
solids or ignore gravity (see Be There).  The downside of 
this near immortality is that the Ideals have no real 
existence, and simple disconnection can mean their death!  
Should an Ideal disconnect without physically transforming, 
it will take one wound per round until reconnected or dead. 
Have Object (PER)- Anything an Ideal can imagine can be made 
real by this skill.  But since even the simplest form of 
tool is a contradiction, the Objects so created can only 
enhance an Ideal's natural abilities and skills.  Have 
Objected is rolled versus a difficulty of the stat or skill 
to be increased, and the result points read on the power 
push table.  The Object will then increase the Ideal's stat 
or skill for a number of rounds equal to the increase.  An 
Object cannot grant an Ideal a skill it does not have.  
Regardless of skill value or roll, an Ideal may not have 
more than one Object at a time.  And a failed roll does not 
always mean that nothing appears...  ("Hey, Rocky, watch me 
pull a rabbit out of my hat!") 
Be There (MIN) - Though Ideals usually travel in a mode 
appropriate to their form, they are really just going 
through the motions.  An Ideal need only think of a place to 
be there.  The difficulty is equal to the measure of the 
distance, and a minimal or average result means that the 
Ideal arrives there a round later, a good or better result 
allowing the Ideal to be there in the same round.  This 
method of travel works only for the Ideal, but not any 
objects it has created, nor can the Ideal go to a place that 
it has no knowledge of.  Additionally, an Ideal can ignore 
the effects of gravity with a difficulty of 14, plus one for 
every round spent doing so. 
In addition to these three skills, the Law of Ideals 
interacts in small ways with the high magic and spirit 
axioms to produce minor effects.  Damaged characters may 
find stars spinning around their head.  An Ideal that spends 
a possibility to buy of the damage of a fireball my find 
herself still blackened and crispy, until the next round.  
Adrenaline cards spent to increase a running total may show 
up as speed lines shooting out behind the character, and 
Idea cards are always associated with a light bulb over its 
head. 

The Law of Comedy - There is no Third Law!  The Man Who 
Draws Things finds that set World Laws bind his Art and 
limit his Vision.  Lacking the power to disrupt the other 
Laws, he created one that would change at his whim and allow 
him to explore more fully his artistic muse.  Every time the 
Ideal cosm appears, it has a new law and a new look, all at 
the whim of it's High Lord.  Possibility rated Ideals have 
two options:  either forget the third law, and let the GM 
come up with a new one for each adventure, or choose to 
stick with one existing world law from another cosm.  As 
usual the GM has final approval, and is suggested to be 
careful with "unbalanced" world laws that only offer 
advantages without any drawbacks, such as the Nile Law of 
Action. 
Some world laws that The Man Who draws Things has used in 
the past are: 
Law of Joe - all attacks against living things are at -5/-5, 
and attacks at tools - primarily guns and vehicles - are at 
+3/+3.  For some reason The Man Who Draws Things always uses 
this when dropping in on the United States Army. 
Law of Anime - a character may spend as many personal 
possibilities on a single action as the number of rounds 
spent doing absolutely nothing immediately before said 
action (up to a maximum of five), not counting cards it may 
use or Karma the GM may choose to spend.  A side effect of 
this law is that speed lines, a background device indicating 
rapid motion, spring up behind the character as they stand 
there motionless. 
Law Of Old Mr. Jenkins - the True death of any horror whose 
Perseverance has been exceeded becomes "removing the rubber 
mask and pointing out that it is just Old Mr. Jenkins who 
used to own the amusement park on the hill."  This alone has 
forced the Gaunt Man to give up trying to incorporate the 
Ideals into an Ecology of Fear and order his minions to kill 
them on sight.  Something that has proven easier said than 
done. 
Law of Marvin - gives the former Kantovian/currently Aztec 
Darkness Device, Hutzipuloci, mobility, gospogs, and an 
explosive space modulator capable of destroying the planet 
that trapped it back in the dead cosm of Kantovia.  And then 
it provides Storm Knights to foil it at every turn.  The 
Other Nameless One really, really, really enjoys this one! 
Law of Everybody Gets One - probably The Man Who Draws 
Things' most spectacular failures.  This world law was 
intended to grant every Ideal it's own Darkness Device, 
immediately corrupting them and making the Ideal cosm the 
most powerful invader ever.  When the smoke cleared, half 
the cosm was gone and nothing much had changed.  Except to 
this day The Other Nameless One has trouble with acronyms - 
"T - O - O- N, that spells The Other Nameless One" - and 
cannot pronounce the word "axiom" correctly. 

The Man Who Draws Things and his Darkness Device, The Other 
Nameless One 
[Statistics for The Man Who Draws Things and The Other 
Nameless One are not included, because like their cosm they 
are constantly recreating themselves.  But neither have 
physically transformed to the Ideal reality, and therefore 
lack the Ideal Body skill.  The Other Nameless One makes up 
for it with the usual 200 TOU.  The Man Who Draws Things 
runs away a lot!] 
The Man Who Draws Things is first and foremost an "Artist," 
even to the point of forgetting the time he spent before 
becoming a High Lord, and living "only in the moment."  Of 
course, being High Lord material means that he is all of the 
bad things and few of the good.  He is petty, vain, blinded 
by his own vision, and intolerant of his critics.  He is 
rarely creative, usually relying on a pastiche of another 
High Lord's cosm or ideas taken at random from other art 
forms for his "masterpieces."  Even when he recreates the 
cosm in his own images, he can barely take the time 
necessary to complete his plans before he has come up with 
new ideas that must be carried out, now!  Imagine the 
attention span of the Pharaoh Mobius, the linear thinking of 
Ulthurion (in his current dragon form), and a sense of humor 
rivaling that of the technodemon Thratchen and you get the 
general idea. 
The Other Nameless One is a total nut burger, plain and 
simple.  If it's ramblings are to be believed, it was the  
first and greatest of the Darkness Devices, brought by 
random chance to the one cosm that is the antithesis of 
everything it stood for.  It holds the other Darkness 
Devices accountable for it's abandonment and humiliation, 
and has no problems invading their realms.  It still reveres 
The Nameless One, which alternates in it's addled mind from 
a brother to a father figure to something it read in a 
fortune cookie somewhere.  It cares not for power, and has 
not even related the Torg myth to it's High Lord.  It wants 
only destruction, the more the merrier. 
The Ideal invasion usually consists of three stages:  First 
The Man Who Draws Things comes up with a new idea, and sets 
about formulating a new World Law to capture it's essence 
using The Other Nameless One to physically transform the 
Ideal cosm to match his vision.  Then when everything is 
ready, The Other Nameless One sends the entire cosm, lock 
stock and barrel, to the chosen invasion site in what 
amounts to a widespread dimthread.  Due to the energy 
requirements in moving an entire cosm, the invaded area is 
usually very small, rarely more than a few city blocks, 
though The Man Who Draws Things has sometimes been able to 
"ride piggyback" on the stelae of other Darkness Devices to 
increase this to an area roughly the size of Tokyo.  (As a 
side effect of the transportation, the invaded zone is only 
dominant.  If another reality's stelae are used, the zone 
becomes mixed.)  Once there, The Other Nameless One works 
desperately to drain more possibilities than it spent 
getting there before The Man Who Draws Things grows bored 
with it all, takes his toys, and goes home.  The aftermath 
of such a quick and dirty invasion is devastating, with 
twice transformed Ords exploding all over, physically 
transformed Prateds dying through disconnection, and 
physical objects that were a contradiction under the new 
axioms suddenly just disappearing without the Ideal reality 
to give them form.  Luckily, such invasions are rare.  It is 
usually ninety days or more before The Other Nameless One 
has enough energy to support another one, and even longer 
before The Man Who Draws Things can come up with a new 
concept to try out.  Additionally, the invasions usually 
don't take in as much possibility energy as they cost, and 
The Other Nameless One has to sacrifice parts of the Ideal 
cosm just to keep going.  Soon there may be nothing left but 
a very bitter young man too self-involved to notice, and an 
even more bitter lump of darkness to insane to care.  But 
such is Art...
