Illithicar

	Here comes the first of three long posts about three cosms I have 
developed for my Torg campaign. Illithicar and Seido are mentioned as the 
site of failed Tharkold reconnaissances, while everyone knows Kadandra 
(or do they?)

<<<<<Drum Roll>>>>>

ILLITHICAR--The world of Conspiracy Reality
	From the deranged mind of John Walter Biles, Mobius's real secret 
identity. Inspired by the ILLUMINATUS trilogy, The Prisoner, The Janus 
Directive, tons of cheesy conspiracy movies, The Bavarian Illuminati in 
New England, Holy Blood, Holy Grail (Long live the Merovingian dynasty!), 
and the Illuminati game and GURPS supplement from Steve Jackson Games.

HISTORY
	Illithicar followed a similar history to Core Earth up until 5,000 BC. 
That's when the Andromedans arrived. They were renegades from the 
Andromedan Hiearchy who escaped through a star gate and crashed on 
Illithicar. They used their superior scientific knowledge to make 
themselves the hidden masters of the world. Unfortunately, Illithicar 
only had a Tech axiom of 7 at the time, so a lot of it didn't work. They 
began working behind the scenes to try to advance the pathetic humans to 
the point where things would start working again (The Andromedan Hiearchy 
had some knowledge of the concept of Axioms, picked up from Star gate 
explorations and disasters, but no Darkness Device to play with). 
However, the aliens were unable to stay unified forever (with a Social 
axiom of 7 in the cosm, they were doomed). One group went renegade around 
3,000 BC and founded the secret society that would one day briefly go 
public as the Bavarian Illuminati. A group of religious Andromedans fled 
to South America and founded the Cult of Eris (goddess of Chaos and 
Strife). By 2,000 BC, they had fragmented beyond repair, but still 
remained hidden. Their plots and conspiracies could not be entirely 
hidden, and the world laws began to change...
	Conspiracies are rife in Illithicar. The Bavarian and Swiss Illuminati, 
the Andromedan Society (and its front, the Masons!), the agents of Fu 
Manchu, Templars, the Priory of Zion, SPECTRE, and many others are all 
out to control the world. Further adding to the disorder is the fact that 
about fifty years ago, there was a shadow war between Tharkold agents and 
Marketplace agents.  Now, several of the groups have been able to utilize 
technology/eternity shards captured from the warring groups and create 
Dimthread Machines (a la the machine created by Dr. Hachi Mara-Two in 
Kadandra). Perhaps these other worlds contain the secret to WORLD 
DOMINATION!!!!

AXIOMS AND WORLD LAWS
Magic 7/15 Magic is also controlled by the secret societies. The tabloids 
are trying to reveal the truth, but "real newspapers" would never admit 
that a vampire really went on a rampage in Chicago yesterday, or that the 
Ambassador to Latveria was fireballed by a mad cultist. Most magic 
emphasizes invisible effects, like charm, persuasion, stealth 
augmentation, mind control, etc. Flashy spells work, but few people use 
them.

Social 21/22 World-girdling conspiracies are possible. If they weren't 
manipulating world politics, Illithicar would have continent-wide 
governments by now.

Spiritual:9/15 The religious scene appears similar to Core Earth, but the 
Religous conspiracies (The Cult of Eris, the Templars, the Priory of 
Zion, the Assassins) have access to miraculous power at a high level.

Tech 23/26 Illithicar appears to be a Tech 23 world, but the secret 
societies control access to the higher levels of technology. robots, 
lasers, mind control devices (the insidious orbital mind control lasers!) 
teleport tubes, super computers, virtual reality, cyberware, etc. This is 
carefully hidden from the public at large.

Law of Intrigue
	This is identical to the World Law of Nippon Tech (Nippon Tech 
sourcebook, page 69-70).

Law of Coincidences
	There are none. All facts are connected, if you can figure out how. If 
the regional bureau chief of the CIA visits Guatemala, and there is an 
earthquake after he leaves, obviously he was directing the planting of an 
earthquake inducing device. Since this is beyond the CIA's Tech 
capabilities, obviously he is a pawn of one of the high tech Conspiracies 
(probably the Andromedan Society or the Bavarian Illuminati). This is a 
guide to the style of adventures in Illithicar. If players steal a car, 
the people they are trying to escape from probably planted the car in 
their path and bugged it too. Or maybe a rival conspiracy planted it, and 
put a tape with hints in the tape player. 
	Also, this law has the corollary that if enough people believe in a 
theory strung together from coincidences, it may come true. This can not 
alter or break the actual laws of this universe, however (No, you can't 
convince people the Earth is flat and change its shape). Treat this as a 
reality skill check with a difficulty of 30. Ords can contribute to this: 
take the Torg value of the number of believing ords, and treat this as a 
reality skill that can support the "effort" to make it real. People who 
strongly disbelieve this will subtract from the effective number of 
believers. (Note: Any thing believed by at least 250,000,000 people can 
become real automatically if no one strongly disbelieves it (They have an 
effective 42 reality skill and thus could never fail to make it real). ) 
However, it can be hard to convince people of things...

The Law of Skepticism
	This is the only thing that keeps the Law of Coincidences from making 
the world exceptionally wacko (like 250,000,000 conclude the CIA is in 
league with the devil and suddenly Satan is head of the CIA). People are 
hard to convince of anything relating to conspiracies or violations of 
the apparent axioms (like powerful magic).
	Anyone who has not directly experienced anything "unusual" has +8 to 
Willpower to resist any effort to persuade them of the truth of unusual 
events. People tend to ignore anything that violates their notion of how 
the world should be.  Those who have had their skepticism pierced with 
regard to one kind of wierdness, still retain it towards other kinds ("OK, 
the Matrix really does have control of AT&T, but I still can't buy that 
your new neighbors are actually reading your mind every night."). Any 
action that violates the "accepted" view of reality has a +3 to difficulty 
(Namely - magic of axioms 8-15, miracles of axioms 10-15, and tech of 
axioms 24-26, any psionics) if witnessed by nonbelievers. 

SPECIAL SKILLS
Conspiracy Theory -- Mind Based -- This skill enables you to guess at the 
connections between events and the many conspiracies of the world. The 
difficulty number is equal to the degree of secrecy and subtlety that a 
group has:
Examples:
A Fraternity . . . . .  6
The Masons . . . . . 7
Corporate Espionage . . . . . 10
Intelligence Agencies . . . . . 12
Lesser global conspiracies (Templars; Matrix - a group of Hackers and 
  robots, controlled by a super computer; Fu Manchu) . . . . .14
Fairly Subtle (Swiss Illuminati--World Finance conspiracy; Andromedan 
  Society, Society of Eris) . . . . . 16
Masters of Stealth (Bavarian Illuminati; Priory of Zion) . . . . 18

Minimal Success: Yes, there is a connection.
Average Success: The connection between event and front group is 
  established.
Good Success: Motive for the event can be intuited. Other sources of 
  information are known by the skill user.
Superior Success: Links to other events are established. The motivating 
  group is revealed.
Spectacular Success: You know who did it, how they did it, and why. You 
  can also intuit a future event which may result from this.

	Example: Father Aloysius thinks that someone has been robbing the parish 
treasury. He has a Perception of 9 and 2 adds in conspiracy theory, giving 
him an 11. Unbeknownst to him, the CIA has been robbing the till to fund 
their aid to the contras. They have infilitrated the local Kiwanis and 
recruited one of its members on the Parish Council of Aloysius's parish 
to steal money from parish funds by blackmailing him. They have a secrecy 
factor of 12. Father Aloysius gets lucky and rolls a 17. That gives him a 
15-12 =3 , a good success. He realizes that Bob has been looking guilty 
ever since he joined Kiwanis.  Someone in Kiwanis must be blackmailing 
him to steal from the Parish treasury. Luckily, Aloysius knows someone in 
the Kiwanis he can trust to ask if this is true. A superior Success would 
have allowed Aloysius to intuit that someone is using Bob to get the 
money. A Spectacular Success means that Aloysius knows that the CIA is 
using Bob and can guess where the money is going. Possibly the thefts may 
get worse if the CIA thinks Bob is still undetected.

EQUIPMENT
	Most equipment is similar to Core Earth. However, several groups have 
access to Tharkold style Cyberware(use Tharkold Tables) duplicated from 
captured Tharkoldu (from their incursion 50 years ago). The Bakemono 
Corporation, founded by Marketplace agents who betrayed Kanawa due to the 
Law of Intrigue, has Tech 24 equipment similar to that in the Nippon Tech 
book. The Matrix has access to self-aware robots, Tech 26 Cyberdecks and 
Virtual reality. The Andromedan Society has Teleport Tubes, Lasers, and 
Power Armor. Essentially, no society has all of the Tech available at a 
given level above 23, but has what is most appropriate to its nature. No 
PC should have more than one or two items above the "public" axiom 
levels. Magic items are even rarer than Hi-Tech.

THE MAJOR PLAYERS
The Andromedans: These are the only group that uses Illithicar's Tech 
Axiom to its fullest. They have Tech 27-30 equipment too, but most of it 
is broken and they don't know how to fix it anymore. They have 
infilitrated human society using plastic surgery, hi-tech, and psi-
simulation devices to hide their presence. Many conspiracies were founded 
by Andromedan Renegades. They seek to push the technological development 
of Earth so they can leave and go home.

The Bakemono Corporation: These are renegades from Marketplace who 
betrayed a Kanawa invasion of this cosm. They have Tech 24 equipment at 
their command. They are mostly interested in making money and gaining 
power. However, the Swiss Illuminati have the same goals and are at war 
with them. Only the inability of the Swiss Illuminati to find enough 
allies in Japanese society has prevented them from crushing the Bakemono 
Corporation.  That and the fact that the Bakemono are the only people in 
this cosm who understand what eternity shards are. They have collected 
quite a few.

The Bavarian Illuminati: The Bavarian Illuminati seek two goals: personal 
immortality and world domination. They infilitrate governments and social 
organizations with the goal of gaining total control of the planet. 
However, their highest ranks also dabble in Magic. They seek to become 
immortal. Too bad that isn't possible at Illithicar's current axioms. 
Their biggest flaw is their tendency to underestimate the power of 
computer technology and finance. They have Tech 24 equipment, and Magic 
15 spells at the highest levels.(Lower ranks have no magic, Middle ranks 
have Magic 10 spells).

The Cult of Eris: This was an Andromedan cult that wants to overthrow all 
governments, organized religion, and all other bonds on personal freedom. 
"Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the law." They are loosely 
organized and often ineffective, but they wield spiritual might(Miracles 
up to Axiom 15).

The Priory of Zion: This secret society is dedicated to returning the 
Merovingian kings to the throne of France, and then all of Europe. Their 
leaders believe themselves to possess the Blood of Meroving in their 
veins, which confers vast magical and spiritual power. They have created 
many groups over the years to use as fronts, with the Templars being the 
most famous.  They are incredibly secretive. They have access to both 
magic and miracles of axiom 15, but no hi tech.

The Swiss Illuminati: A financial cartel that manipulates the world 
economy. Power is to be gained through money, not control of governments. 
They split off from the Illuminati hundreds of years ago. They use 
psionic agents and have a special prison: the City. The City is a prison 
that looks like a town on an Island. Everyone is referred to by number, 
not name. They test techniques of psychological warfare, new psionic 
techniques, and new scientific developments on the inmates. No one knows 
where the City is.(This is modelled after the Village, of course, from 
the Classic British TV series, The Prisoner). The City newspaper is 
called "Over the Top".

The Matrix: The Matrix is a network of hackers, supercomputers, and 
robots working towards world domination through control of Illithicar's 
computers. They have Tech 26 computer/robot/cybertechnology. No one is 
sure who or what controls this group.

TEMPLATESs

Angry Ex-Cultist
Dex: 10   Str: 8   Tou: 9  Per: 11   Min: 12   Cha:8   Spi: 8
Tag Skill: Apportation Magic
Possibilities:10
Recommended Skills: Dodge, Martial Arts, Melee Weapons, Alteration Magic, 
Divination Magic, Scholar, Conjuration Magic, Conspiracy Theory, 
Meditation, Science, Taunt, Faith, Reality
Stuff: Robes, Grimoire, $50, Ceremonial Sword (Dam 15, Tech 15), Wallet, 
Stolen Papers, phony holy texts, I Ching, 
Background: You thought you had finally found the way of enlightenment. 
Amazing powers were offered at the price of unquestioning obedience. You 
bit the bait, but then you changed your mind. Some group is using the 
cult you joined as a goon squad.  You intend to learn who.
Tag Line:" I sought Enlightenment, but found only man's greed."

Conspiracy Theorist
Dex: 9   Str: 8   Tou: 8   Per: 12   Min: 10   Cha: 9   Spi: 10
Tag Skill: Conspiracy Theory  
Possibilities:10
Recommended Skills-Dodge, Fire Combat, Stealth, Evidence Analysis, Find, 
Forgery, Language, Scholar (History), Track, Psychology, Science, 
Willpower, Charm, Persuade, Taunt, Intimidate, Reality
Stuff: Conspiracy Books, 500 dollars, Walther P.38 (Tech 22, Val 15, 
3-10/25/40), Library cards, Pen, Notepads, Mason Ring (authentic, but 
stolen/borrowed/bought at a pawnshop), UFO photo, this week's Weekly 
World News
Background: You know their secrets. You know who really killed Kennedy 
and why. You know where Jimmy Hoffa and Judge Slater really are. You know 
who Number One really is. You know the are on to you. Only you can break 
the Veil of Silence.
Tag Line: "Of course the Masons control the gypsies.  The Masons started 
the gypsies as a front for their criminal activities in ancient Egypt. Everyone knows that."

Escaped Prisoner
Dex: 9   Str: 8   Tou: 9   Per: 8   Min: 12   Cha: 8   Spi: 12
Tag Skill: Reality or Willpower
Possibilities:10
Recommended Skills: Dodge, Fire Combat, Lockpicking, Stealth, Disguise, 
Evidence Analysis, Find, Scholar, Trick, Artist, Business, Psychology, 
Science, Survival, Test, Willpower, Taunt, Faith, Intimidate, Reality
Stuff: Map of the City, Stolen Coded Documents, Lockpicks, Glock 17 (Tech 
22, 3-10/25/40, Dam. 15), Lockpicks, City Monitor outfit, Disguise Kit, 
$300, Copy of the "Over the Top" (the City newspaper)
Background: They couldn't break you. They took away your job, your name, 
and your freedom. They locked you in "The City"--a prison that looked 
like a typical American City on a island--and threw away the key.  But 
they couldn't break you. You escaped-again. They always seem to recapture 
you, but maybe this time you will be free at last.
Tag: "I will not be stamped, filed, numbered, briefed, or debriefed. I am 
a man, not a number!" (TM-whoever holds the copyright on The Prisoner TV 
series. I strongly recommend it and the GURPS The Prisoner Sourcebook for 
anyone running adventures in Illithicar, especially if the Swiss 
Illuminati get their grubby little fingers on the PCs).

Hacker:  
Dex: 9   Str: 9   Tou: 9   Per: 10   Min: 12   Cha: 8   Spi: 9
Tag Skill:  Science(Computers)   
Possibilities:10
Recommended Skills: Dodge, Running, Unarmed Combat, Evidence Analysis, 
Find, Language, Trick, Science, Willpower, Taunt, Reality
Stuff: Swiss Army Knife, Electronics Kit, Home Computer, Modem, 
Miscellaneous Programs, Disks, and Reference Books, Computer Manuals, 
Electronics parts, $100
Background: You love hacking your way into places you shouldn't be in. 
Unfortunately, you hacked your way into the Swiss Illuminati database. 
Now they are looking for you. Plus, there's this Network group.  How did 
they find your system and wipe it clean, after you disconnected your 
modem? Hmmm....
Tag:" The CIA has remarkably bad electronic security. I have a harder 
time finding my car keys most days than breaking into their files."

Intelligence Analyst
Dex: 9   Str: 7   Tou: 9  Per: 13   Min: 11   Cha:8   Spi: 9  
Tag Skill:  Evidence Analysis     
Possibilities:10
Recommended Skills: Dodge, Fire combat, Stealth, Disguise, Forgery, 
Language, Scholar(Cryptography), Scholar(Intelligence Agencies), Trick, 
Science(Computers), Test, Willpower, Charm, Persuasion, Reality
Stuff: IBM laptop with Satellite UpLink and Modem(Tech 24 uplink/23 
laptop), Disks stuffed with classified information(Treat as a device with 
Conspiracy Theory 10, Scholar (Intelligence Agencies) 15 that can be 
consulted if player fails a skill check or used to support a skill 
check), Microportable photocopier/scanner (tech 24), Defender Pistol 
(Tech 24, Dam:18, 3-15/40/60), Shades, APAC (Advanced Polymer Armored 
Clothing, Tou+3, Val 12), The Briefcase (Tou 20 with Electronic Lock, 
Diff: 17 Tech 24), Code Books
Background: You were an ordinary intelligence analyzer until you 
discovered one of your fellow agents was calling up an enemy agency on a 
secure agency line on a regular basis. When you tried to expose him, they 
tried to liquidate you. You grabbed all the data you could and took off 
running. Now you are trying to make sense of a world that is stranger 
than you thought.
Tag Line:" I wouldn't trust his story. It sounds like he's feeding us 
false data."

Intelligence Operative
Dex: 11   Str: 9   Tou :9   Per: 9   Min: 8   Cha: 11   Spi: 9
Tag Skill:  Stealth       
Possibilities:10
Recmmedned Skills: Acrobatics, Fire Combat, Lockpicking, Long Jumping, 
Manuever, Martial Arts, Prestidigitation, Climbing, Disguise, Find, 
Forgery, Language, Trick, Science, Test, Willpower, Charm, Persuasion, 
Taunt, Reality  
Stuff: Miniature Walkie-Talkie(100 mile Range-Tech 24), Pen Gun (Tech 24, 
Damage 15, 1-2/5/8), Flechette Pistol (Tech 24, Dam 17, 2-10/30/45), APAC 
(Advanced Polymer Armored Clothing--Tech 24, Tou+3, Val: 12, looks like 
real clothing, feels like real clothing), Shades, Grapple Gun, disguise 
kit, microcamera
Background: You worked for an intelligence agency that you thought was 
dedicated to saving the world from evil conspiracies.  then you found out 
that some of its members were actually working for those conspiracies. 
Now you don't know who to trust. You have gone independant, because you 
think you can still trust yourself.
Tag Line: "Fool me once, shame on you.  Fool me twice, shame on me."

Renegade Andromedan
Dex: 9  Str: 9   Tou: 10   Per: 10   Min: 9   Cha: 10   Spi: 9
Tag Skill: Disguise         
Possibilities:10
Recommended Skills: Dodge, Energy Weapons, Fire Combat, Lockpicking, 
Language, Psionic Manipulation, Scholar, Trick, Psionic Resistance, 
Science, Willpower, Charm, Persuade, Intimidate, Reality
Stuff: Andromedan Laser Mark IV (looks like a .357 magnum, Dam:24, 
Tech:26, 3-15/50/100), Gauss Pistol Mark II(looks like a .357 magnum, 
Fires seemingly normal bullets, Dam: 20, Tech:26, 3-25/100/300), Long 
Range Communicator (50,000 Km range, looks like a Cellular Phone, Tech 
26), APAC/II (Advanced Polymer Armored Clothing/ Mark II:  Tou +4--Val 
14--Tech 24), $1000, Disguise Kit
Background: You were raised in a hidden Andromedan enclave to infilitrate 
and control human society. You would be able to blend right in due to 
your training and surgery. It worked a little too well. You decided you 
liked having a normal life and betrayed the Andromedan cause. Now they 
are out to get you before you can expose them. 

Renegade Conspiracy Enforcer
Dex: 11   Str: 11   Tou: 11   Per: 9   Min: 8   Cha: 7   Spi: 8  
Tag Skill:  Intimidation  
Possibilities:10
Recommended Skills: Dodge, Fire Combat, Lock Picking, Melee Combat, 
Running, Stealth, Unarmed Combat, Disguise, Find, Evidence Analysis, 
Survival, Willpower, Taunt, Reality
Stuff: Suit, Hat, and Sunglasses, 1000 dollars, Bakemono 13MM Special 
Pistol (Tech 24, Value 19, 3-10/30/50), Fake Law Enforcement IDs, Kevlar 
(Val:16, Tech 23), Black Sedan(tech 23)
Background: You used to work for the conspiracies as a gun for hire. 
After being betrayed one two many times, you have decided to turn the 
tables on them. Now you are going to expose their dirty deeds.
Tag Line: "I've found that the sight of a 20 story drop clears the mind 
wonderfully."   

Sixty Million Dollar Man
Dex: 10   Str: 9(13)   Tou: 10   Per: 10   Min: 9   Cha: 9   Spi: 9
Tag Skill: Air Vehicles or Space Vehicles  
Possibilities:10
Recommended Skills: Acrobatics, Dodge, Fire Combat, Long Jumping, Running, 
Stealth, Unarmed Combat, Climbing, Lifting, Land Vehicles, Tracking, 
Survival, Willpower, Reality 
Stuff: $500, HK4 (Tech 22, Val 15, 3-10/25/40), Government ID, Short-wave 
Radio, Jumpsuit, Pilot License
Cyberware: Neuracal(3), Eye Package(2): Cybercam, HeatHunter, 
SoundCatcher (ear) (2), BodyMax (4),Twin Cyberlegs (3--+3 STR), Cyber 
Value 15
Background: You were a pilot for the government. After a crash, you 
volunteered to become the subject for tests with experimental cyberware. 
Now you work for Taskforce X. Something is rotten there, though, and you 
intend to find out what.  
Tag Line: "No Ma'am. I can't tell you how I jumped onto your roof. It's 
classified."

Tabloid Journalist
Dex: 8   Str: 9   Tou: 9   Per: 10   Min: 8   Cha: 11   Spi: 11
Tag Skill:  Persuade        
Possibilities:10
Recommended Skills: Dodge, Unarmed Combat, Conspiracy Theory, Evidence 
Analysis, Find, Land Vehicles, Scholar, Trick, Artist(Photography), 
Willpower, Charm, Persuade, Taunt, Intimidate, Reality
Stuff: Camera and Film, Tape Recorder, Pen and Notepad, Calling Card 
(bill paid by your employers), Business Cards, Hat and Suit, 500 dollars, 
photo of Bigfoot meeting with JFK in 1962 at the White House.
Background: When you were in school, you sneered at the tabloids. Only 
our desperate need for a job drove you to work for one when you graduated. 
That's when you discovered that it was all true! Bigfoot was real. Ross 
Perot really was meeting with aliens. Elvis is alive! Now you are out to 
shatter the complacency of the masses with the truth behind the lies.
Tag Line: "So this is the cemetary where the vampire cat attacked you?"

comments are welcome.       
     
The Red Ghost
johnbil@wam.umd.edu     
