Here's a reality I created _way_ back in 1992, so that the political 
situation has changed somewhat since then; I've included a bit of an 
update on the end. I'm also a little embarrassed about it, since I was still 
trying to think of how to run the game mechanics for the Law of Humour 
when Infiniverse Update #2 came out, so I just knicked the mechanics 
for the Cartoon Cosm's Law of Humor.
  Originally (before I started plagarising the Cartoon Cosm. Honest) this 
was going to be in the Heralds of Reality fanzine, of which unfortunately 
only the first two issues were published.
  I think this cosm should be dedicated to Dave Oakes, who we know takes his 
'toons seriously...

Saxon Brenton     October 1994
--------------------

  Core Earth is a world uniquely rich in possibility energy whose very 
existence has prompted an unprecedented coalition of High Lords to 
attack it for its resources. However, its high energy quotient causes 
other unusual situations as well: it is producing an incredible number of 
possibility rated beings, many of whom are opposing the Possibility 
Raiders, and may actually defeat them; and it lies at the heart of an 
incredibly dense possibility nexus that facilitates the arrival of Storm 
Knights from worlds not otherwise connected with the Possibility Wars. 
The latter has a flip side however; not only can the Storm Knights of 
other worlds readily become aware of the threat and come to join in the 
struggle, but so can other High Lords.
  Two High Lords not originally invited by the Gaunt Man to take part in 
the invasion have recently tried to claim part of Earth's possibility 
bounty for themselves. The first of these - Bartholomew J. Dark, High 
Lord of the melodrama reality of Blightwood Vales - attempted to 
conquer Saudi Arabia as well as usurp some of the eastern flank of the 
Nile Empire of his fellow Terran expatriate Dr. Mobius. His narrow 
defeat by Storm Knights actually had the effect of liberating much of the 
Red Sea from the control of the pulp reality.
  More successful was the invasion of Australia by the High Lord of the 
cartoon reality from the cubical world of Oith, Angela Gloria String. 
Despite some opposition from Storm Knights and Australian authorities 
(which hindered the expansion of her realm somewhat) she successfully 
dropped her maelstrom bridge practically onto the front lawn of 
Parliament House, Canberra, in June of 1992. [The invasions of both 
Blightwood Vales and Oith began immediately after the events 
chronicled in Infiniverse Update #1 and the Realm update in Infiniverse 
#24. These notes are dated for around August 1992.] The world laws of 
Oith in the resulting pure zone distorted the social structures of the area, 
incapacitating most attempts at resistance as society was twisted into a 
parody of itself.
  While the addition of another realm may seem to weaken Earth's 
chances of overcoming the Possibility Raiders, the situation is not as 
bad as it seems. Why? Well, because I cheated a bit. In my campaign 
Oith replaced Tharkold, with only a brief period of overlap of them 
coexisting on Earth. Just before Sterret got the Apocularum working 
again Mayor Bender implemented an inspired but desperate plan against 
Tharkoldu expansion, which rested on three points: the harassment of 
Tharkoldu forces as a diversion; a massive, blitzkrieg assault to destroy 
the Apocularum completely; and the destruction of Tharkoldu stelae by 
teams of biotechnicians, mages, priests, psionicists, and weird scientists 
who had been working on the problem of how to stop them teleporting. 
The Battle for Los Angeles: The Second Defeat of Tharkold on Earth 
did not just raise spirits that the raiders can be completely ousted, and 
kept down the number of realms dampening Earth's defensive 
possibility surges (while still allowing lots of techno-nasties to lurk 
about). Mayor Bender's use of both Core Earth forces and Storm 
Knights groups from many realities - including ones that are not 
invading, such as several squads of Kadandrans - demonstrated that to 
stop the Possibility Raiders Earth's defenders have to work together, 
and use their disparate realities to complement each other.

THE COSM
  The world of Oith is a cube, but otherwise has geographical features 
and landmasses similar to those of Earth. Superficially the culture of 
Oith resembles how 1950s/early 1960s Western culture viewed the 
world. Not how the world actually was in the 1950s and early 1960s, 
but how the materially well off thought of it. It is clean cut and "nice". 
Overwhelming this comparison is the anarchy and impossibilities that 
can be seen in any animated cartoon show. Finally, there is an 
undercurrent of cultural stagnation about Oith that has been present ever 
since String became its High Lord. By tampering with the Law of 
Perseverance she has effectively put Oith into a cultural stasis, with no 
changes in society occurring despite occasional changes in axiom level 
- just as other High Lords do with their cosms. Thus, paradoxically, 
while the cartoon reality is almost totally anarchistic within itself, 
overall it is one of the most rigid and unchanging of the realities in the 
cosmverse.

THE REALM
  The initial invasion zone covered most of the extremity of south-
eastern Australia. String dropped her maelstrom bridge - a solid 
rainbow - practically onto the front lawn of Parliament House, 
Canberra, creating a pure zone that included both the national capital of 
Canberra and the New South Wales state capital of Sydney. Storm 
Knight interference prevented its extension into northern New South 
Wales, but virtually all of the state of Victoria was covered in dominant 
zones - although it was discovered that the state capital of Melbourne 
was a Core Earth hard point. Since the initial invasion the vigilance, 
bordering on paranoia, of Core Earth Australian forces has ensured that 
only one stelae, in the Pacific to the south of Tasmania, was able to be 
planted, causing all of that state to be covered with dominant zones, 
bringing the total to eight (1 pure, 7 dominant).
  The choice of invasion site was dictated by two factors. The first is 
that south-eastern Australia fits the usual High Lord preference for an 
area of high population density that will give a steady supply of 
possibility energy from transforming ords. Secondly, most of the 
institutions that could possibly begin organising defence against the 
invasion are situated in this region. String deliberately placed her stelae 
so that two capital cities fell within the triangle of her pure zone. With 
the Law of Humour turning everybody into parodies of themselves the 
federal government and the state government of New South Wales are 
incapacitated, along with the bulk of the federal bureaucracy and law 
enforcement agencies. The Parliaments are unable to pass legislation as 
the members are too busy screaming insults at each other across the 
floor; the federal and state High Courts are now the sleepy domain of 
superannuated judges who spend their time either boozing and snoozing, 
or composing lengthy documents in legalese that nobody, not even 
themselves, can afterwards decipher; the intelligence services have 
become ultra-paranoid superslueths in trench coats and dark glasses 
who go around bugging the garbage bins of exactly the wrong people; 
the military are more intent on polished boots and combat drills than 
defending the country; the police are Keystone Cops-like figures; and 
the bureaucracies have become huge self-interested conglomerates of 
pencil-pushers jealously guarding their public service entitlements and 
doing little apparent work.

STELAE
  The stelae of Oith are small, plain looking brass doorknobs which are 
buried underground. They are energised to be stelae in a process relying 
on Acme Tech that leaves them faintly radioactive. However, this 
radioactivity exists only in a waveband associated with and detectable 
by Acme Tech, and moreover is so faint that it can only be detected 
within half a meter. They usually have a Toughness of either 16 or 17. 
String has many similar doorknobs buried to act as distractions.

POPULATION
  All beings and objects possessing Oith's reality are cartoons in both 
action and appearance; this happens automatically and requires no 
physical transformation roll. The population is composed of humans, 
anthropomorphic "funny animals", and animate objects. Humans vary 
widely in how "realistic" they are compared with to the humans of other 
realities; ranging from sublimely "realistic" humans such as Jessica 
Rabbit and Holli Would, through "almost realistic humans" such as Fred 
Flintstone and George of the Jungle, to obviously caricature-like humans 
such as Yosemitie Sam and Mr MaGoo. Funny animals are animals with 
human characteristics, ranging from being human in all but appearance, 
like Buggs Bunny and Mickey Mouse, to having fully animal appearance 
but human or near human intelligence, like Scooby Doo. Animate 
objects are beings like Benny the Cab.
  Proportionately the sentient population of the Oith cosm is roughly one 
third human, one third funny animal, and one third animate objects. The 
population of the Oith realm is more than half human, and roughly a 
quarter funny animal and animate object each; since only a few 
transformed Core Earthers lose their humanity. The bulk of the funny 
animal and animate object population are immigrants. The transformed 
tend to turn into parodies of themselves or their profession. Those that 
have no obvious personal parody tend to follow the Australian national 
stereotypes. A few turn into "bushmen": slow talking and ruggedly 
heroic individuals wearing Akubra hats. Most fall into the bushman's 
modern urban derivative: the far less heroic "ocker", who is a loud, 
opinionated, unsophisticated, sport worshipping beer swiller with a 
huge gut dressed in singlets, shorts, and thongs. "Ockerinas", in addition 
to most of their male counterparts' poor qualities, make the Australian 
accent piercingly shrill.
  The cartoon appearance of Oith's population makes it hard to disguise 
them as denizens of other worlds for infiltration purposes, but not 
impossible. Those humans that are virtually identical in anatomical 
proportion to non-cartoon humans are easiest to disguise, using latex 
masks ala Judge Doom. However, even some of the other types can be 
disguised, by using the Elasticity of form ability to temporarily make 
them the right shape and then putting masks on them. Shapeshifting 
(cartoon) can not be used for disguise purposes because it only allows 
for completely non-human forms to be taken up.
  Cartoons have a weakness to the creative use of logic; such as the 
argument "Cats have four legs, my dog has four legs, therefore my dog is 
a cat". Another good example comes from "Who framed Roger Rabbit?" 
When Eddie Valiant was being chased by Lena in Toontown, he tore up 
the line in the middle of the street and directed it into a wall. Lena 
followed the redirected line instead of Eddie, and knocked herself out. 
String recognises this vulnerability, and this is why she considers 3327 
and Malrux the greatest threats to her realm, rather than the hack-and-
slash Tharkoldu or the pulp villain Dr. Mobius.
  Cartoons have no particular weakness to Dip.

CORE EARTH AUSTRALIA
  With the Canberra incapacitated by the Oith pure zone the federal 
capital has been duplicated in Brisbane. The current crisis has the states 
and the new federal government working together, and there is little 
populist grandstanding at each other's expense. However, with the 
provisional New South Wales government at Armidale unable to access 
most of that states' manufacturing base, the Victorian government unable 
to exert much control over its state beyond the hard point of Melbourne, 
and the Tasmanians neutralised, Australia is, for the moment, hard 
pressed to maintain the industrial capital to fight both Oith and Orrorsh. 
Production facilities are rapidly being upgraded in areas away from 
direct threat by the Oith realm. Fortunately, most of the areas of 
Australia's prime export industry, agriculture, lie beyond the invasion 
areas for the moment, so that overseas sales of wheat and wool are still 
funding the war effort. After the loss of several ships in Sydney when 
String created her pure zone the navy are no longer keeping all their 
eggs in one basket and have split the fleet, mainly between Brisbane and 
Perth. Apart from these changes the situation in Australia remains 
basically the same as described on pages 94-100 of the Delphi Council 
Worldbook, with the exception that in order to increase the number of 
opponents of Nippon Tech String has arranged for the Australian 
Defence Corps to get confirming evidence that Japan has been invaded.
  The greatest problem for the Australians is that the invasion is 
unexpectedly well devised. When they first realised they were being 
invaded by cartoons there was a feeling that this would be almost too 
easy to stop, especially after reports of conditions in Orrorsh. Yet while 
most Oithans fit the stereotype of madness incarnate, the agents placing 
the stelae have been harder to deal with, and the plans that these agents 
have been following indicate that someone very shrewd is 
masterminding the invasion. Only the fact that they have been expecting 
an invasion and have had time to prepare has allowed the Australians to 
contain Oith.

Adelaide
  The state capital of South Australia can be claimed by Oith with the 
planting of just one stelae, although increased vigilance since the initial 
invasion has foiled no less than three attempts at such a planting. 
Nevertheless, Adelaide is preparing for the worst. On one hand the 
involves plans for mass evacuations to deny String as much of the 
population's possibilities as they can. On the other hand the widespread 
perception that Melbourne resisted Oith through its reputation has raised 
hopes that "the city of churches" can do the same, and a conservatively 
oriented awareness campaign has been implemented there that the media 
are calling the "think dull campaign".

Armidale
  The university city of Armidale on the Northern Tablelands of New 
South Wales is the new home of the provisional government of that 
state. This is ironic to those who remember that Armidale was to have 
been the capital of the state of New England, which failed to break 
away from New South Wales in the referendum on the issue in 1968. 
Most of the government infrastructure has had to be put together from 
scratch, since the pure zone around Sydney means that very little has 
been able to be salvaged with what few refugees have crossed back into 
Core Earth.

Brisbane
  The state capital of Queensland is currently doubling as the national 
capital because it is the city furthest from both Oith and Orrorsh. It is 
faring better than Armidale at absorbing the responsibilities of 
provisional government because it already has state government 
institutions in place that can double for many of their federal 
counterparts. Even so, resources are stretches thin.

Darwin
  Although the capital of the Northern Territory continues to suffer from 
repeated attacks, particularly by the Nightmares Gmorph and 
Trachelsteph, the huge military presence here has been reduced as 
forces are redeployed to the south.

Melbourne
  Melbourne is the state capital of Victoria, and is a Core Earth 
hardpoint. It is widely assumed that Melbourne resisted transformation 
because of the derisive label it has been given as drear and drab and 
puritanical. How this could possibly be the case when only the 
inhabitants of other states believed this myth is a mystery, but 
Melbourninans are now taking fierce pride in this once galling 
reputation.

Perth
  Perth continues to be beset by horrors that make their way down the 
western coast. About half the naval ships stationed in Australia are now 
based in the Fremantle port.

THE HIGH LORD
  Angela Gloria String is a cartoon of totally human appearance and 
knockout looks. She is a cold, ruthless and calculating woman who, 
although she has no official power on Oith, has immense influence over 
her world. Her most potent ability is that since gaining her Darkness 
Device she has been tutored in the differences in the psychology and 
logic between cartoons and non-cartoons, and she can manipulate them 
to her advantage. She has extensive resources of manipulation, 
seduction, coercion, and intimidation, but prefers the "softer" ways of 
manipulating people over direct threats. Oith's Law of Perseverance is a 
potentially dangerous double-edged sword, and it is usually safer to 
make people do things for her by what they think is her own free will 
than run the risk of gaining an implacable opponent.
  String has little passion in her heart, and feels contempt for those that 
are so easily manipulated by her, particularly those that are swayed to 
her cause by seduction. It is for this reason that although she hates and 
fears 3327 and Malrux, she also respects them as cunning rivals and 
worthy opponents.
  In the politics of Oith String is a reclusive figure. She is an influential 
business woman who has extensive control of the media, and is a 
powerful behind the scenes lobbyist with most governments and 
institutions, but has enough power to maintain her relative anonymity in 
all her endeavours. Her method of invading other cosms is to use media 
manipulation and propaganda to incite mass migrations down the 
maelstrom bridges.
  She has a large number of underlings to organise the migrations, 
infiltrate other realms, plant stelae, and keep a watch out for cartoons 
who show opposition to the invasion. They are trained in dealing with 
cartoons and non-cartoons, both so that they can work unnoticed in other 
realms, and to smooth over any problems with rebel Oithans. The latter 
usually means using convoluted arguments to convince them that the 
migrations do no harm; but they are also perfectly capable of 
eliminating people in such a way that their victims cannot be resurrected 
with the Resurrection ability derived from the Law of Humour.
  As a Possibility Raider String's priorities are:
  1) Expand her realm to cement her position on Earth and claim a share 
of its possibility bounty.
  2) Undermine Nippon Tech and the Cyberpapacy.
  3) Remove the aspect of the Law of Perseverance that makes Oithans 
vulnerable to creative logic, while keeping them uncomprehending of 
non-cartoon realities.
  4) Become the Torg.

Angela Gloria String
Dexterity 12
  Dodge 13, Fire combat 14, Prestidigitation 15, Unarmed combat 13
Strength 8
Toughness 9
Perception 25
  Evidence analysis 29, Find 26, Scholar (cartoon logic) 30, Scholar 
  (non-cartoon logic) 30, Scholar (politics) 27, Tracking 26, Trick 30
Mind 24
  Business 27, Science (psychology) 28, Science (seduction) 27, 
  Survival 26, Test of will 36, Willpower 37
Charisma 25
  Charm 41, Persuasion 31, Taunt 30
Spirit 21
  Faith (Oith) 22, Intimidation 30, Reality (Oith) 26, 
Possibilities: 60 (or more if she has recently tapped Tragk)
Equipment: 9mm P38 (damage value 15), black handbag, 4 vials of 
various mind-affecting and will-sapping drugs for use on others, Acme 
Tech lie detector built into belt that tingles at different intensities 
depending on extent of falsehood told.

TRAGK
  The insidious and mind numbing Darkness Device of Oith is the 
obsidian television set Tragk.
Dexterity 0
Strength 0
Toughness 192
Perception 28
  Alteration magic 30, Divination magic 30, Evidence analysis 33, 
  Find 34, Language 34, Scholar (cartoon logic) 35, 
  Scholar (non-cartoon logic) 35, Tracking 33, Trick 38
Mind 41
  Apportation magic 42, Conjuration magic 42, Hypnotism 53, 
  Test of will 55, Willpower 47
Charisma 30
  Charm 49, Persuasion 36, Taunt 33
Spirit 30
Faith (Nameless One) 39, Focus 31, Intimidation 38, Reality (Oith) 39
Possibilities: Untold thousands
Powers: All the powers listed on page 38 of the Torg Rulebook.

AXIOMS AND WORLD LAWS
Magic 13     Social 21     Spirit 10     Tech 21

Magic 13 While there is a substantial amount of magic in use in Oith, 
and all four magic skills function, they aren't used all the time. Instead, 
it is used on occasions when cartoons think it might be a good way to deal 
with a particular situation. The use of magic in Oith, just like with all 
the other axioms, is marked by silliness and triviality.

Social 21 Oith uses nominal representative democracies, but like 
everything else it is affected by the silliness that comes from the Law of 
Humour, so that from a non-cartoon point of view they are parodies of 
the political process.

Spirit 10 Like everything else, the Spirit axiom is affected by the Law of 
Humour, and as a result tends to be distorted into a funny configuration. 
In Oith religion usually takes the extremes of being either a personal 
affair which is comical, or hysterical fundamentalism which is comical.

Tech 21 Oith is marked by its use of labour saving devices and gadgets, 
some of which are useful, many others of which are pointless and 
ridiculous. Technology beyond 1960s level is supplied by being made 
from Acme Tech, which also often pointless and silly.

Law of Humour
  The Law of Humour states that what is funny, works. The colliery to 
this is twofold; what is not funny will either not work, or be turned into 
something that is funny. This powerful world law not only dictates the 
feel of cartoon reality, but also is the prime weapon of disorientation on 
String's arsenal. In other realities it is the difference between the local 
and invading axioms that incapacitates the natives and allows the 
Possibility Raiders the victories they need to expand their realms. 
While this happens with Oith's reality as well, it is primarily the Law of 
Humour that does the most disorientating as it twists the invaded area 
into a parody of itself.
  The Law of Humour has a number of uses. It can temporarily bend or 
negate any rule, allowing for gravity defying, desperate mid-air 
scrambles when someone falls off a cliff. In some cases it can even 
temporarily raise or lower axiom limits, although these situations 
should be carefully considered before being implemented. It is an active 
world law, in the sense that it can be deliberately used by people to 
create certain effects.
  The game mechanics for the Law of Humour are ripped o^H^H^H^H^H 
deal homage to the Law of Humor of the Cartoon Cosm (Infiniverse 
Update #2). Like the Law of Humor, the Law of Humour in Oith is 
applied by having the character use his, her, or its Reality skill (or 
Spirit for ords) to bend the physical laws of the universe. The character 
must roll to beat a difficulty number set by the GM based on how 
improbable or impossible the action is (see the "Law of Humour 
Difficulty Modifiers" table for sample DNs), and by how funny the 
action is as judged by the GM (see the "Law of Humour Modifiers" table).
  If the character fails the roll to do something funny with the Law of 
Humour then it is likely that the Law of Perseverance may try to get the 
character to try again, no matter how inappropriate the act of trying 
again may be. The character must therefore make a Cartoon 
Perseverance check, as described under that world law.
  Certain actions are doomed to fail when using the Law of Humour to 
get them to work, such as conjuring orthodox weapons (like uzis, 
magical swords, laser pistols, etc.). This is because no matter how 
many limitations are built into the hard number crunching game 
mechanics, the simple fact remains that the Law of Humour is designed 
specifically to break rules and do anything, making it, arguably, one of 
the most powerful world laws in the Torg system. As such GMs 
shouldn't rely solely on juggling difficulty modifiers to keep scheming 
players in check; rely instead on the powerful limiting definition "is it 
funny?" Remember, cartoons, by the standards of everyone else in the 
cosmverse, are nuts (In the early days of the Possibility Wars people 
thought the inhabitants of the pulp reality of the Nile Empire were 
weird, but when Oith arrived they quickly realised that pulp heroes are 
downright normal compared to cartoons).
  A cartoon will not use the Law of Humour to pull an Akashan gravatic 
ray out of nowhere and start blasting away. Simply put, that sort of thing 
wouldn't occur to a cartoon. Instead, a cartoon would conjure a pie 
(possibly spiked with ether) and throw it at an opponent. By 
comparison, a non-cartoon character may try to use the Law of Humour 
to get a gravatic ray, but because that's not how cartoons think, and 
because the Law of Humour is from a cartoon reality and attuned to the 
way cartoons think, it won't work anyway. In such attempts the action is 
defined as "not funny" and fails automatically. Similarly, a cartoon 
being chased across the rooftops would not use the Law of Humour to 
run across thin air to safety; a cartoon would jump into empty space and 
blow a raspberry at his pursuers, then duck for cover as they start 
shooting at him. Essentially, the greatest brake on attempts to use the 
Law of Humour to create all-powerful characters is to remember that 
cartoons think in ways that are silly, often trivial, and most importantly, 
self-limiting. If things do get out of hand, however, then start fouling 
things up with the Law of Murphy.
RESURRECTION: The main difference between the Law of Humour in 
Oith and the Law of Humor in the fringe reality Cartoon Cosm is that in 
Oith it offers the chance to cartoons to survive death through the 
Resurrection ability. Resurrection is a world law derived ability much 
the same as Inclination Seduction is derived from the Law of Morality 
in the Nile Empire, but is available to everyone, not just possibility-
rated characters (providing, of course, that they don't disconnect, which 
would result in a nasty, and very terminal, surprise). By comparison the 
Cartoon Cosm does not have this 
skill; instead the inhabitants of the Cartoon Cosm automatically survive 
death through the use of the Law of Darkness Devices (dun-da-dun-dun!), 
and the total partial invulnerability that having a cartoon Darkness Device 
provides under this world law.
  If a cartoon dies then the successful use of this ability will enable her 
to come back to life, no matter how damaged the body was. In some 
cases the Law of Humour may allow cartoons not to die in the first 
place, but instead survive with mortal wounds, as in the Fearless 
Fosdick comics in Li'l Abner where people wander around with bullet 
holes in them that can be seen through to the other side of the body. The 
character rolls with her Spirit value against a difficulty number derived 
from how improbable it is (recommended to be 12) modified by how 
funny the return of the character would be (an important modifier to take 
into consideration would be whether someone has already warned the 
cartoon about the risk of laughing itself to death, which, under the right 
(wrong?) circumstances, would make it almost impossible to survive). The 
level of success determines the result:
  MINIMAL The cartoon returns to life after a period of time equal to 
  the result points of the roll in hours.
  GOOD to AVERAGE The cartoon returns to life after a period of time 
  equal to the result points of the roll in minutes.
  SUPERIOR to SPECTACULAR The cartoon doesn't die at all, but 
  instead is severely mangled - such as being squashed flat, shot full of 
  holes, burnt to a crisp, etc. The damage vanishes after a period of time 
  equal to the result points of the roll in minutes.
ELASTICITY OF FORM: This ability allows the user to alter his form. 
This can be done in one of two ways, only one of which can be used at 
any particular time. With both versions Elasticity of form requires that 
the person make a roll using their Spirit value against a difficulty 
number set by the GM (see Elasticity of Form Modifiers table, below, 
in addition to the two from the Cartoon Cosm, the Law of Humour 
Modifiers and Law of Humour Action Difficulty Modifiers).
  Disguise: In its disguise-oriented version arms and legs can be 
lengthened, noses and chins can be stretched out or pushed flat, and beer 
guts can be hoisted up to create impressive looking chests. People can 
change their own shape slightly so as to disguise their appearance, but 
must remain in roughly the same physical configuration, e.g., humanoid 
to humanoid, etc. People using elasticity of form must physically 
manipulate their body to shape it; the skill does not function by will 
alone.
  Shapeshifting (cartoon): This use of Elasticity of form is more like 
Orrorshan shapeshifting skill than the disguise version is, except that 
only non-living items can be duplicated (e.g. Judge Doom's anvil and 
chainsaw hands in "Who framed Roger Rabbit?"). Depending on the 
success of the ability roll as much as the whole body or as little as one 
finger may be changed.

Law of Humour Modifiers
Action   			Modifier
  Action is funny   		  -2 DN (a pie in Thratchen's face)
  Very funny and creative  	  -4 DN (a pie in Thratchen's face with brick filling)*
  Very funny and puts   	  -6 DN (the pie in Thratchen's face is still connected
    character at a  		    to the character by a Pie-O-Matic Piecaster)
    disadvantage 
  Not funny at all  		  It doesn't work (trying to sell Thratchen life insurance)
  So not funny it's funny  	  ** (trying to sell Thratchen life insurance while its
				    chewing your arm off)
  Character is not a cartoon  	  +15 DN
  Victim is not a cartoon  	-5 DN
* Note that if a player comes up with a creative new use for the Law of Humour, 
but uses it continuously, then although it may still be funny it has become "old hat" 
and drops to -2 DN. In this manner players must continuously stretch the limits 
of their creativity.
** You figure it out.

Law of Humour Action Difficulty Modifiers
Type of Action  	DN  		Effect
  Very improbable  	+12 DN  	  Sinking all the balls on a break in a 
					    game of pool
  Super improbable  	+15 DN  	  Flipping a coin 100 times and always 
					    getting heads
  Really incredibly  	+18 DN  	  Flipping a coin so it land on its edge
    improbable 
  Okay, just plain  	+22 DN  	  Causing the law of gravity to ignore an
    impossible  				    object
  More than just  	*		  Causing the law of gravity to work
impossible   				    differently on different parts of an object
* You figure it out

Law of Humour Elasticity of Form Modifiers Table
Body Part   				Difficulty Modifier
  Part of limb (finger(s) or hand)   	+1 DN
  Whole limb (arm or leg)   		+2 DN per limb
  Torso   				+5 DN
  Head   				+5 DN
  Whole body (in total)   		+15 DN

Change of shape
  Roughly same shape     		+2 DN
  Dissimilar shape   			+5 DN
  Totally different shape   		+10 DN

Change of property
  Roughly same properties   		+2 DN
  Dissimilar properties   		+5 DN
  Totally different properties     	+10 DN

Change in Size
  Same mass   				+2 DN
  25% greater or lesser mass     	+4 DN
  50% greater or lesser mass     	+6 DN
  75% greater or lesser mass     	+8 DN
  100% greater or lesser mass     	+10 DN
  +25% greater or lesser mass     	+2 DN thereafter

Law of Murphy
  The Law of Murphy ensures that anything funny that can go wrong, will 
go wrong. This allows for situations seen in, for instance, Disney's 
Donald Duck cartoons, where inanimate objects seem to perversely 
come to life to frustrate people. The functioning of this world law is 
comparable to the Nile Empire's Law of Drama, ensuring that people 
are always engaged in some activity. Naturally, while the Law of 
Murphy ensures that such problems will occur, it is the Law of Humour 
that actually allows them to happen.

Law of Perseverance
  The Law of Perseverance causes people to become single-minded in 
dealing with a problem. Recall in Warner Bros. cartoons where Wile E. 
Coyote is never discouraged from trying to catch the Road Runner, no 
matter how many times he is run over, blown up, or bruised after falling 
from a great height. This is a practical demonstration of the Law of 
Perseverance. A cartoon who is faced with a problem to overcome (and 
there are always lots of problems to overcome thanks to the Law of 
Murphy) will become more, not less, determined to succeed with each 
defeat. This can be compared with the Nippon Tech Law of Vengeance, 
which also prompts people to "get back" at opponents. Persevering does 
not necessarily mean continuous attacks on an opponent; often it entails 
the cartoon retreating to formulate and implement some outrageously 
ingenious and silly plan. A cartoon who is affected by the Law of 
Perseverance makes a Cartoon Perseverance check by rolling against a 
base difficulty score of 12 using his Willpower (or Mind). A success 
indicates that he may choose not to Persevere against an opponent, 
although he may continue to do so for role-playing purposes. On a roll 
that does not succeed he has no choice but to Persevere. If a character 
tries to attain the same goal and fails again, then another Cartoon 
Perseverance check is made, but the Law of Murphy butts in and 
imposes a cumulative +1 modifier to the difficulty number. Since an 
unending series of Cartoon Perseverance checks could eventually get 
boring (i.e., not funny) at the GMs option the fifth Cartoon Perseverance 
check may be automatically passed, unless there is a good (i.e., funny) 
reason not to do so. Note that if a Cartoon Perseverance check is failed 
when using the Law of Humour, then the action must be attempted again 
immediately, and may not be postponed. If a possibility rated character 
continues to persevere by choice rather than complusion, then a role-
playing award of 1 possibility per Act is applicable if he continues to 
persevere through 5 or more failures in that Act.
  Although they have the same basic effect, the Law of Perseverance in 
Oith is different to the Perseverance that occurs under the Power of Fear 
in Orrorsh. Oith Storm Knights working in Orrorsh will continue to be 
driven by their world law, but can still lose their special abilities along 
with everyone else in the group if the Perseverance check is not 
successful. However, a Storm Knight group that has one or more 
cartoon members will receive bonus perseverance points. At the start of 
an adventure in Orrorsh the group's starting perseverance number will 
be 9 rather than 8, and they will gain an extra one perseverance point 
every time perseverance is awarded.
  This world law also affects how the cartoons view their society and 
those of others. It did not prior to String taking possession of Tragk. 
Ever since String came to understand the potential for tricking her 
fellow cartoons into invading other worlds for her, she has had Tragk 
strategically augmenting this world law. Before this meddling the Law 
of Perseverance had only applied to people who were rallying against 
adversity. Now it also causes the cartoons to be narrow minded in their 
view of their society, and have little desire to understand the realities of 
others.
  A cartoon who is confronted with the task of overcoming the Law of 
Perseverance to understand a non-Oith reality for the first time must 
make a roll against a difficulty number of 22, using his Willpower score 
(or Mind).
  Trying to convince most of the cartoons that they shouldn't be invading 
is difficult. Trying to force them to understand that they shouldn't be 
invading is even worse. They came down the maelstrom bridge to enjoy 
themselves, and by gadfrey they're going to enjoy themselves! Trying to 
force a cartoon to understand anything about the nature of other realities 
just causes the Law of Perseverance to increase their single-mindedness 
and the difficulty of the roll. It's usually simpler to trick them, or better 
yet work them into a situation where they will figure it out for themselves.
  Unfortunately for String, the process of alienating the Oithans from 
other realities has also increased the cartoons' vulnerability to creative 
logic. String has tried to remove this limitation, with little success.

Law of Acme Tech
  The Law of Acme Tech is the way that cartoons get all that 
wonderfully complicated technology that frequently doesn't work 
(properly). As far as game mechanics are concerned, it is effectively 
weird science operating at an effective Tech axiom of 33. However, the 
two are different world laws, and are incompatible when mixed and 
matched. The biggest difference between the two are that pulp powers 
can only be placed in machines; the Law of Acme Tech doesn't allow 
for powers in characters.
  This law also supports the Acme tech skill, which is, you guessed it, 
essentially identical to the Weird science skill.

Reconnection numbers
Character from Oith is in 	Character in Oith is from 
reality of:			reality of:
Atlantis 	14		Atlantis 	6
Avalon   	12		Avalon   	12
Aysle 		9		Aysle 		9
Aztec Empire 	8		Aztec Empire 	10
Core Earth 	9		Core Earth 	5
Cyberpapacy 	7		Cyberpapacy 	8
Kantovia 	19		Kantovia 	10
Land Below* 	16		Land Below* 	9
Lereholm 	19		Lereholm 	5
Living Land 	16		Living Land 	15
Magna Verita 	10		Magna Verita 	7
Nile Empire 	5		Nile Empire 	9
Nippon Tech 	13		Nippon Tech 	7
Olympus 	13		Olympus 	8
Orrorsh 	6		Orrorsh 	10
Pulse's cosm 	15		Pulse's cosm 	13
Star Sphere 	8		Star Sphere 	12
Terra 		6		Terra 		3
Tharkold 	5		Tharkold 	10
Tz'Ravok 	12		Tz'Ravok 	9
Dullsville 	3		Dullsville  	8
Scritch 	9		Scritch 	8
* also Arachnidia and Gehenna

WHY DO THE CARTOONS INVADE OTHER COSMS?
  Rubbernecking, basically. The Law of Murphy often incites cartoons 
into almost unnatural fits of curiosity, which can lead them into trouble - 
and funny situations as dictated by the Law of Humour. With her control 
of the media String can incite mass migrations of cartoons to other 
cosms that she has marked for invasion. The cartoons travel down the 
maelstrom bridges to gawk at the natives. They find nothing remarkable 
about the periodic appearance of a maelstrom bridge leading to another 
world; stranger things happen on Oith all the time.
  On the other hand this curiosity could lead to problems if the cartoons 
began to empathise with the natives. If the people of Oith suspected for 
a minute what String was up to the original application of the Law of 
Perseverance would instantly make them opponents of the High Lord, 
who would stop at nothing to stop her. String has therefore manipulated 
the Law of Perseverance to eliminate this problem, but it still happens 
frequently enough that she has her goons on the lookout for any rebels so 
that they can be quickly eliminated. On Earth cartoons are turning 
against the invasion more often than before, since those cartoons that 
wander outside the stelae boundaries can gain knowledge of the other 
High Lords. After comparing the tactics of the known High Lords with 
what the cartoons themselves have been doing over the years, they put 
two and two together - and usually get very angry.
  However, because of the tampering that Tragk has done to the Law of 
Perseverance the cartoons feel little empathy with the people they have 
come to observe. In fact, even though they have come to see the sights 
they have very little interaction with the natives until they have 
transformed to Oith's reality, at which point the cartoons feel more 
comfortable around them. There is no hostility or bigotry in this; it's 
simply blank incomprehension on the part of the cartoons when faced 
with another reality. Indeed, the cartoons even feel a little pity for non-
cartoons, so that they see nothing wrong when they transform over to 
Oith's reality. This, of course, plays right into String's hands. The 
organisers of String's "tours" can therefore keep the cartoons travelling 
around inside the areas already transformed to Oith reality until such 
time as new stelae are planted, because those are the areas that they feel 
most comfortable with.

CARTOONS VERSUS HORRORS
  The horrors of Orrorsh are somewhat less effective against cartoons 
than the people of other realms. This is not because of immunity to 
Orrorshan world laws; the Powers of Fear and Corruption apply to 
cartoons just as much as anybody. Confronted with a monster the eyes of 
most cartoons will bug out before the terrified person runs, screaming, 
in the opposite direction, leaving little scorch marks on the ground in his 
wake. But no matter how terrified a cartoon may become the Oith world 
law, the Law of Perseverance, will cause that cartoon to return to try to 
get the better of the monster.
  Moreover, the cartoons have an advantage over all other monster 
hunters in that if killed they all have the chance of returning through the 
use of the Resurrection ability. Naturally, if they are killed and come 
back to life the Law of Perseverance will make them even more 
determined to eliminate the monster. And as already noted, a 
persevering cartoon will overcome the Power of Fear much faster than 
others.
  The advantages of cartoons in fighting horrors are therefore threefold: 
they can't be terrorised into incapacitating insanity because they're 
effectively already insane, they're incredibly difficult to keep dead, and 
their obstinacy causes them to overcome the Power of Fear at a faster 
than normal rate.
  On the other hand the great disadvantage of the cartoons is their 
weakness to creative logic. Horrors that have minimal intelligence (as 
well as many that are merely cunning) will probably eventually fall 
before a persevering cartoon; but those monsters that have some degree 
of creative thought (and aren't hindered by a pre-programmed "style of 
horror" put into them by the Nightmare that made them) could well come 
up with some way to permanently incapacitate its opponent. In such a 
case it becomes a race to see whether the cartoon will unearth the 
horror's true death, or if the horror will come up with some way of 
balking the cartoon.
  The ability of the cartoons to confound the horrors of Orrorsh is of 
particular interest to Storm Knight organisers like the Guildmaster, and 
recruitment of Oithans is in full swing. There are problems in telling 
apart cartoons from Oith from cartoons from the Cartoon Cosm, as the 
former has the Law of Perseverance, and the latter do not.

STRING AND THE OTHER HIGH LORDS

Aysle
Pella Ardinay
  Lady Ardinay of the Light is opposed to String as she is to all the other 
High Lords, and finds the arrival of the Oith realm somewhat vexing; 
destructive Possibility Raiders just keep appearing out of the 
woodwork to ravage Earth. One more High Lord will make saving 
Earth that much more difficult once the civil war in the Aysle realm and 
cosm is settled, and the new High Lord of the fantasy reality is 
neutralised.
Angar Uthorian
  The dragon Uthorian is so obsessed with revenge on Ardinay that he is 
barely aware of the presence of the Oith realm. In his madness he 
dismisses it as just another interloper that he will righteously crush 
when he regains control of Drakacanus.
The other candidates
  The other candidates for the position of High Lord of Aysle are 
primarily concerned with establishing control of the realm. Any thoughts 
of an alliance are tied in strongly with that imperative. Wotan is 
disdainful of any help, preferring to bulldoze his way through 
opposition on his own. Melekere's dislike for humans is somewhat 
allayed by the cartoon appearance of even the most human-like of the 
Oithans, and he is sly enough to at least consider any help offered, 
regardless of source. Of all of them it is the Warrior of the Dark that 
seems most amenable to an alliance with String. The anarchic nature of 
the cartoon reality makes it a good counter to the strictures of 
uprightness of the Light, and - in its own way - the Cyberpapacy. 
  String views with some interest the Aysle realm, as its fantasy nature 
compares favourably with the exotic activities that routinely occur on 
Oith. She sees a possible alliance as favourable, and consequently the 
need for Ardinay to be defeated as important. her preferred candidate is 
the Warrior of the Dark, and it is to her that String has offered help. An 
alliance of two newcomer females (three, if Jezrael is included) against 
the "old boys" club (no matter how divided the old boys are 
themselves) seems profitable. However, the confusion over the 
accession has seen String also make overtures to the others as well, of 
whom only Melekere has responded.

Cyberpapacy
  Malrux is not amused with the arrival of the cartoons. Not only is 
another High Lord interloping by taking away potential converts to his 
church, but the anarchy of Oith lacks the respect that is required of 
servants of the Lord. At least its not another race of demons. The 
cartoons are mostly animals, and the papacy has dealt with animals 
before - when the heathen savages of Magna Verita's Africa, Americas, 
and Australia were deemed not to have souls they were quite profitably 
put to work as slave labour. The Cyberpope was prepared to leave the 
cartoons for the time being; since they are somewhat effective against 
the ungodly horrors of Orrorsh, and are also acting as another opponent 
to 3327. However, String's opposition to his church's activities have 
caused cyberpapal attacks that extend beyond mere propaganda 
invective.
  String views the Cyberpope with suspicion, distaste and grudging 
respect. He is a stuffed shirt who takes himself and his silly religion far 
too seriously. Nevertheless, he is a devious man who she sees as 
second only to 3327 as a threat in terms of outwitting the cartoons, and 
that is the order she intends to destroy them in.

Living Land
  Baruk Kaah, as far as he can spend time to be aware of anything 
beyond his problems in his own realm, is bemused by the cartoon 
reality. The thought that other High Lords might claim some of the booty 
of Earth's possibilities is a disturbing one, but the silliness of Oith 
reality leads him to believe he may be able to trick String into an 
alliance, with the options of double-crossing her later. First, however, 
he'd need to take time that he really hasn't got to study the cartoon realm, 
as its reality is so bizarre as to be nearly incomprehensible to him.
  String sees Kaah as a primitive brute; but he and his people certainly 
have a zesty lifestyle, which is to her approval. She has noted his 
situation, and would be willing to form an alliance for the purpose of 
both using him and undermining his position.

Nile Empire
  Dr. Mobius is quite pleased with the arrival of the cartoon realm. The 
eccentric and often fast paced Oith reality is quite compatible with his 
world view. He arrogantly believes he can crush String when the time 
comes, so in the meantime he'll leave her to help to keep Earth's 
possibility energy surges at bay, and muddy the waters even more. He's 
looking forward to the clashes between Oith, Orrorsh and Nippon Tech.
  String delights at the concepts of action and adventure available in the 
Nile, but considers Dr. Mobius to lack the subtlety in his activities to 
pose much of a threat to her. She believes that in a contest between 
cartoon and pulp realities the fantastic would clash with the fantastic, 
with the Law of Perseverance tipping the odds her way.

Nippon Tech
  3327 is preparing to crush String. Initially it seemed that Oith would 
serve as a useful distraction against Orrorsh, especially as their world 
laws seemed to blunt those of the horror realm. That being the case 
3327 could afford to overlook the fact that the cartoon invasion was 
causing a slight drop in arms sales to the Australians; and he was 
prepared to view String as another competitor who would be dealt with 
- later. However, since then String's animosity towards the 
megacorporate reality has become apparent, and he no longer finds the 
cartoons amusing.
  String views 3327 with extreme suspicion. The inherent limitations on 
the logic of the cartoons make them vulnerable to deviousness, and he is 
an extremely devious opponent. Moreover, unlike the Cyberpope, he is 
always subtle. She therefore intends to fight Orrorsh only as a holding 
action; first priority goes into weakening and disrupting Nippon Tech. 
This doesn't just involve attacks on 3327 by her own forces and those of 
her allies in Tharkold. String has also increased the number of 
opponents of Nippon by arranging for the Australian Defence Corps to 
get confirming evidence that Japan has been invaded. This meant a lot of 
Delphi Council agents trying to prevent it had to have their skulls 
bashed in with a lot of frying pans, but it worked.

Orrorsh
  While nobody is actually controlling the horror realm, the Nightmares 
recognise that whoever finally joins with Heketon will view the 
interloper Oith realm with dissatisfaction, since it has stolen land 
originally intended for Orrorsh. To this end most are making plans to 
attack the cartoon reality in order to curry favour with whoever claims 
the title of High Lord of Orrorsh. If someone was actually in charge, 
even Thratchen as regent, then these plans might be reigned in so that an 
alliance could be formed with Oith for a joint attack on Nippon, and 
later Orrorsh could turn and destroy the cartoon reality. As it stands, 
however, nobody has the authority to implement that sort of plan.
  String's assessment of Orrorsh is in part false. She sees a realm 
convulsed with internal leadership struggles and static in growth. She 
realises that the Nightmares are moving against her, but believes she can 
afford to put up a holding action against them while she moves against 
Nippon. In this she is probably right - for the time being. She may even 
be able to stand up against Orrorsh when it finally gets its High Lord, 
whether it is Thratchen or someone else from among the Nightmares or 
the Hellion Court. However, should the Gaunt Man return she will 
probably find herself on the defensive against his power, cunning and 
subtlety.

Space Gods
  Like Pella Ardinay the Akashans view the arrival of Oith as yet 
another hurdle in the path to liberating Earth. While frustrated they are 
far from dispirited, as it has spurred them to increase their efforts.
  String views the Akashans as a serious potential threat because of their 
reality trees, and is making contingency plans to undermine them, but for 
the time being she is prepared to leave them since they distract her two 
greatest perceived foes; Nippon Tech and the Cyberpapacy.

Tharkold
  Jezrael, originally dismissive of the "silliness" reality, is somewhat 
bemused that it can hold its own against the might of Orrorsh. Still, 
Orrorsh is leaderless and uncoordinated at the moment, and Jezrael is 
convinced that Oith couldn't possibly last against united horror or 
technohorror. Nevertheless, when String offered an alliance Jezrael 
accepted. Oith will make a useful ally in undermining Nippon Tech, 
although the Tharkoldu will claim the right to administer the coup de 
grace. Both High Lords also have a common interest against the 
Cyberpapacy. Ultimately however, the cartoon reality is expendable and 
will be crushed by one or another of the High Lords.
  String considers Tharkold to suffer the same weaknesses to her 
reality's world laws as Orrorsh does, as well as seeing the Tharkold 
realm to be too small to be a real threat. Nevertheless, an alliance with 
Jezrael could be beneficial. It would represent one less opponent to 
have to deal with immediately; and she would have help in dealing with 
3327 and the Cyberpope.

OITH PLAYER CHARACTERS
  Player characters from Oith are made up by the standard rules of 
character creation.
  The cosm limits for Oith are 13 in all attributes, with the exception that 
one attribute may be as high as 14.

Template: Curious Cartoon
Cosm: Oith     M 13   Soc 21  Spi 10  T 21
Tag skill: Trick
Dexterity 10
  Dodge, Manoeuvre, Unarmed combat
Strength 9
Toughness 9
Perception 11
  Find, Language, Scholar
Mind
  Survival, Test of wills, Willpower
Charisma 8
  Charm, Persuasion, Taunt
Spirit 9
  Reality (Oith)
Equipment: four fingered gloves, plunger, knife (Tech 7, dam 
STR+3/12), $50
History: After you came down the latest maelstrom bridge to this world 
called Earth your curiosity got the better of you, and you wandered 
beyond the storm front to see the rest of the place. There you discovered 
other bridges, and were told of the schemes of the High Lords. Furious 
at the idea of having been used as a pawn in the murder of worlds you 
joined up with other Storm Knights to stop the invaders. Your 
companions are strange people with restrictive realities; they're 
physically limited in what they can do, they tend to think in straight 
lines, and they're so fragile (if they're killed they almost always stay 
dead). But you choose to ignore all that, since it's their right to their own 
realities that you're fighting for.
Personality: You are fascinated by the other worlds and realities 
involved in the Possibility wars, and are determined to save them from 
the High Lords. You are also optimistic of the eventual outcome, since 
you know from personal experience that anything is possible if you try 
hard enough.
Quote: "What an exciting idea, a world in the shape of a globe"

CHARACTERS
Bulldog Jones
  Bulldog Jones is an enforcer for String, and is a cold blooded killer 
who specialises in making sure cartoons stay dead. He is a bulldog who 
stands upright, and is heavily muscled underneath the pinstripe suit and 
hat that he habitually wears. He looks (and acts) like a gangster. 
Bulldog's build, heavy jowls and tiny, beady eyes give him the 
appearance of being a stupid strongman; a misconception that he 
deliberately fosters to put his opponents off-guard.
Dexterity 10
  Dodge 13, Energy weapons 12, Fire combat 16, Manoeuvre 13, 
  Unarmed combat 15
Strength 14
Toughness 12
Perception 10
  Scholar (cartoon logic) 12, Scholar (homicide) 13, Scholar (non-
cartoon logic) 12, Trick 12
Mind 12
  Survival 14, Test of wills 14, Willpower 14
Charisma 7
  Taunt 9
Spirit 10
  Intimidation 17, Reality (Oith) 14
Possibilities: 24
Equipment: Thompson SMG (dam 20, 3-15/25/100), .45 Colt Auto 
(dam 16, 3-10/15/40), brass knuckles (dam STR+3/17), Acme Tech 
laser pistol (dam 17, 3-30/100/200), pinstripe suit and fedora, 
aftershave lotion

The Hatchet
  Abigail Twist is a popular and controversial columnist for the Daily 
Informant, and is both feared and respected by those in high office. 
While String has other agents in various media organisations, none are 
so able to move popular opinion and discredit String's opponents as 
Abigail can. She is an acid tongued old biddy of almost human 
appearance who commands a wide following with her no-nonsense 
approach, and uses as her by-line the nickname 'The Hatchet' for her 
reputation of cutting to the heart of matters. Her detractors also use this 
nickname, but use it to refer to her abilities of character assassination. 
Abigail's main activities are investigating stories of interest to her 
readers or String. She sometimes takes part in convincing "renegade" 
cartoons that the migrations to other worlds aren't harmful, but only 
rarely (and in guaranteed privacy) will she murder them - she's too 
public a figure to be able to risk doing that often.
Dexterity 10
  Fire combat 12
Strength 7
Toughness 8
Perception 12
  Evidence analysis 15, Scholar (journalism) 15, Scholar (cartoon 
  logic) 14, Scholar (non-cartoon logic) 14, Trick 15
Mind 13
  Artist (writing) 16, Test of Wills 15, Willpower 14
Charisma 15
  Charm 16, Persuasion 22, Taunt 17
Spirit 12
  Intimidation 21, Reality (Oith) 13
Possibilities: 21
Equipment: note pad, pens, Dictaphone, glasses, 9mm Browning (dam 
15, 3-10/25/60)

Dr. Roach
  John Roach is a 1.4 meter tall cockroach and a trained doctor. During 
the last invasion by Oith he wandered outside of the Oith realm to 
explore and came across a disaster area where several buildings had 
collapsed. As he helped tend the wounded his patients told him what 
life was like beyond the storm front, and his sympathetic bedside 
manner allowed him to comprehend what they were telling him. 
Appalled by the devastation he realised his people were causing he 
transcended. Later he returned to the cartoon reality to try to tell people 
of the harm they were doing, but there he met with blank 
incomprehension by the general public and ridicule by The Hatchet, and 
was driven into hiding. He now works to enlighten the Oith public of the 
damage they are doing and oppose the High Lord, but so far has been 
unable to identify the mastermind behind the invasions.
Dexterity 9
  Dodge 10, Fire combat 10, Stealth 10
Strength 9
  Climbing 10
Toughness 9
Perception 11
  Evidence analysis 12, Find 12, First aid 13, Trick 12
Mind 13
  Medicine 17, Test of wills 14, Willpower 14
Charisma 11
  Charm 13, Persuasion 13
Spirit 10
  Faith (Oith) 11, Reality (Oith) 11
Possibilities: 18
Equipment: doctor's bag (Tech 21 medical kit), Acme Tech Geiger 
counter, walking cane (ornamental and defensive only)(dam STR+2/11)

Bluey
  Bluey is a farmhand from Earth who was transformed to Oith reality, 
becoming a stereotypical bushman as a result. He is fully human in 
appearance, tall, thin and sun-browned, with a shock of bright red hair 
and freckles. Although he was somewhat cosmopolitan before 
transforming, this has been lost with the adoption of his stereotype. He 
is slow spoken, reserved, more than a bit naive about city life, sticks by 
his friends, fights like a champion, drinks like a fish, and swears 
sulpurously.
Dexterity 12
  Beast riding 15, Fire combat 13, Manoeuvre 14, Melee weapons 14, 
  Stealth 14, Unarmed combat 15
Strength 11
Toughness 10
Perception 10
  Evidence analysis 11, First aid 11, Scholar (bush lore) 12, 
  Tracking 12
Mind 7
  Survival 9
Charisma 9
  Charm 10, Persuasion 10
Spirit 9
  Intimidation 10, Reality (Oith) 10
Possibilities: 16
Equipment: sleeping bag, Akubra hat, rope, flashlight, whip 
(dam STR+2/13), .45 Colt Auto (dam 16, 3-10/15/40), knife (dam STR+3/14)

GOSPOG
  Being a High Lord that the Gaunt Man did not invite to take part in the 
invasion of Earth, String was not supplied with any gospog seeds. Not 
wishing to be at a disadvantage she has arranged to steal some from 
other High Lords. These were primarily from Nippon Tech and the 
Cyberpapacy, but efforts to procure the seeds were only marginally 
successful, often being thwarted by agents of those realms or by Storm 
Knights. Consequently String has nowhere near the number of gospog 
available to her that other High Lords do, and views them as a resource 
to be conserved. Currently only some of the first plantings have 
matured. They are identical to the first planting gospog of other realms, 
save that they have a cartoon appearance that easily marks their place of 
origin. In combat they are somewhat more persistent than other gospog, 
because they can use the Resurrection abilities of the Law of Humour.

  Second planting gospog look, and act, like Keystone Cops. They are 
humanoid pigs with handlebar moustaches dressed in old fashioned 
police uniforms with truncheons, and are often called pigpen cops. 
These bumbling foul-ups are dangerous to be around, since no matter 
what accident they create it is always their opponents who seem to take 
the damage. They usually travel in groups of three to five.
Dexterity 10
  Melee weapons 12, Unarmed combat 11
Strength 10
Toughness 13
Perception
  Find 11, Tracking 12, Trick 13
Mind 8
  Test of wills 10, Willpower 10
Charisma 7
  Taunt 10
Spirit 7
Possibility potential: none
Equipment: truncheon (dam STR+3/13), handcuffs, seltzer bottles, 
rattletrap police car or van

  Third planting gospog are mobile, walking trees between three to five 
meters tall. They are of no identifiable species, instead having a 
"generic" look about them: a straight trunk with a spherical bowl of 
leaves on top. they have two branches that can be used as arms with 
clumps of leaves on the end that act like hands. They have a humanoid 
face growing from the "front" of the trunk just below the leaves.
Dexterity 12
  Stealth 15, Unarmed combat 16
Strength 15
  Lifting 17
Toughness 12
Perception 10
  Find 11, Tracking 12, Trick 11
Mind 9
  Test of wills 10, Willpower 10
Charisma 5
  Taunt 9
Spirit 8
Possibility potential: none

  The fourth planting gospog are small carnivorous cars (usually 
Volkswagens) whose hoods open to reveal teeth with which they attack.
Dexterity 11
  Dodge 12, Stealth 13
Strength 14
Toughness 17(22)
Perception 10
  Tracking 12, Trick 11
Mind 11
  Test of wills 12
Charisma 3
  Taunt 8
Spirit 8
Possibility potential: none
Natural tools: teeth (dam STR+4/18), armour plating (TOU+5/27), overrun 
attack (dam 20)

  The fifth planting gospog are incredibly cute little baby bunny rabbits 
of awesome power and lethality, with a mean streak a mile wide.
Dexterity 15
  Dodge 17, Manoeuvre 17, Stealth 16, Unarmed combat 18
Strength 22
Toughness 23
Perception 11
  Tracking 12, Trick 14
Charisma 13
  Charm 15
Spirit 11
  Intimidation 18
Possibility potential: none
Natural tools: claws (dam STR+3/25), teeth (dam STR+3/25)

POCKET DIMENSIONAL FRINGE REALITIES
  Oith is a cosm, and as such has its own fringe realities. The most 
notable of these are the enormously boring (to outsiders' eyes, anyway) 
Dullsville, and Scritch, the stick figure reality (and you thought it 
couldn't get weirder :-)

DULLSVILLE
  This world is only called Dullsville by people other than those who 
live there. It is called Cambar by its inhabitants, who are all human. It is 
the curse of the Cambarns to be studious, sober, industrious people 
living in a world that, alone among the realities of this cosm, is not in 
any way cartoonish or vaguely silly.
  Attribute limits are all 13.

Magic 14     Social 23     Spirit 11     Tech 24

Magic 14. Cambar recognises that there are some things that magic can 
do that technology can't, and vice versa. They try to use the most 
appropriate for the circumstances, although there is a lot of overlap 
between the applications of the two.

Social 23. Cambar is quite advanced socially, and has a world council 
as government. It has a wide range of social institutions that cover all 
types of activities, and contribute to the rich social lives of the 
Cambarns. Cambar's population live in huge suburban sprawls that are 
connected by an extensive and efficient public transport system; there 
are tight controls and rationing on private transport.

Spirit 11. The state religion is a dualistic faith called Hayen. There is 
no distinction between church and state, and occasionally the Hayen 
hierarchy becomes involved in factional struggles within the 
government (usually, but not always, of its own will).

Tech 24. Nippon Tech level technology, but without the emphasis on 
espionage and intrigue.

Law of Community
  Essentially the same as Lereholm. A bonus of +1 applies to any activity 
that ten or more members of the community are working together on.

Law of Rationality
  This law works to increase the amount of sensibleness that people 
exhibit. This covers a diverse range of "non-sensible" actions, ranging 
from mental illnesses to frivolity in general. While the former may be 
beneficial, the latter also means that the Cambarns are missing out on 
the likes of Monty Python, the Goons, and slapstick in general; when 
they make jokes, they are dry, intellectual things.
  In game terms there is a -1 penalty to all "non-sensible" or irrational 
actions. There is also a general drop (by about 10%) in aberrant 
behaviours

Law of Dull
  The name of this world law is somewhat misleading. It doesn't cause 
this fringe reality to be dull. It causes people who are not native to this 
reality to *perceive* it as dull, which is something completely, if subtly, 
different. The non-cartoon inhabitants of this world long ago resigned 
themselves to incursions by hyperactive cartoons and stick figures from 
the other realities in the cosm, as well as to their reactions to Cambar's 
non-hyperactive lifestyle. This resignation has manifested itself in this 
world law.
  Inhabitants of Cambar continue about their business as normal, and 
usually lead quite active and fulfilled lives. However, any non-native of 
Cambar who comes into this reality is automatically subject to this law, 
and as a result will find everyday events in this world dreadfully 
tedious. Even if that person is not a cartoon, and is, for example, from 
Core Earth and so would normally partake in activities quite similar to 
the ones being carried out around him, he will nevertheless become 
incredibly bored by it all. Any time a non-native of Cambar must carry 
out an activity for more than one round, they must make a Willpower 
total against a DN of 12 each round, or grow disinterested in it. This has 
two effects, the first is that the bored individual will stop as soon as 
possible. The second is that all such actions are penalised with a -2 to 
their effect total because of a lack of enthusiasm and effort.
  The Law of Dull has an effect on the calculation of reconnection 
numbers. Because non-natives of Cambar find this world so boring, the 
reconnection numbers for outsiders trying to reconnect while in this 
reality are lowered by 1.

Reconnection numbers
Character from Dullsville is 	Character in Dullsville is 
in reality of:			from reality of:
Atlantis 	16		Atlantis 	4
Avalon   	13		Avalon   	10
Aysle 		12		Aysle 		7
Aztec Empire 	11		Aztec Empire 	7
Core Earth 	12		Core Earth 	3
Cyberpapacy 	8		Cyberpapacy 	6
Kantovia 	22		Kantovia 	8
Land Below* 	17		Land Below* 	7
Lereholm 	22		Lereholm 	3
Living Land 	19		Living Land 	13
Magna Verita 	12		Magna Verita 	5
Nile Empire 	8		Nile Empire 	7
Nippon Tech 	15		Nippon Tech 	3
Olympus 	15		Olympus 	6
Orrorsh 	8		Orrorsh 	8
Pulse's cosm 	16		Pulse's cosm 	10
Star Sphere 	9		Star Sphere 	9
Terra 		8		Terra 		3
Tharkold 	7		Tharkold 	8
Tz'Ravok 	15		Tz'Ravok 	7
Oith      	8		Oith       	3
Scritch 	11		Scritch  	6
* also Arachnidia and Gehenna

SCRITCH
  Scritch is a stick figure world. It is entirely black and white, and the 
sentient inhabitants are, well, more or less human. Go read Matt 
Feazell's "Cynicalman" or "Zot in dimension 10 1/2" comics for ideas.
  Attribute limits are all 13.

Magic 7     Social 19     Spirit 15     Tech 21

Magic 7. There is some magic use in Scritch, but it is primarily a 
private hobby. Only obsessives practice this unreliable art, but there are 
a disproportionately high number of obsessives in Scritch.

Social 19. Scritch is divided between a group of five imperiums and 
their dependants. The political situation is one of rather carefully 
balanced alliances, rather like pre-Great War Europe.

Spirit 15. Scritch has a number of pantheist religions. The churches 
maintain a high profile, but do not have an equivalent hold on political 
power; there is no one group powerful enough to impose its will.

Tech 21. 1930s Core Earth style technology.

Law of Scribble.
  This is the world law that dictates that everything in Scritch is a stick 
figure. It also controls the fact that everything is black and white (and 
shades of grey) rather than in colour. People who do not possess this 
reality will continue to look the same as they always have (and stand out 
like sore thumbs), unless and until they transform. At that time they will 
become black and white stick figures versions of themselves, regardless 
of whether they rolled a physical transformation result. Only if the 
character is a non-human will physical transformation be important, in 
which case the character will become a, uh, stick figure version of a 
human.
  The worst thing about this is that a newly stick-figurised character who 
transforms back to another reality will need a physical transformation 
roll to become fully human (or whatever) again <evil grin>.

Law of Chaotic Whimsy
  Despite the lack of the outright lunacy of its cartoon parent reality, 
Scritch is still a silly world, and this world law is what governs that 
silliness. It is somewhat reminiscent of the Law of Humour in Oith, but 
lacks the game mechanic of allowing characters the opportunity to do 
humorous things themselves. Thus, it is rather like the Law of Drama in 
the pulp realities; the games master must apply the caveat of making this 
world amusing, and may use the game mechanics of the Law of Humour 
to do anything that seems appropriate. 
  A noteworthy effect of this law is that it tends to persecute serious 
characters. Characters from Tharkold, and grim'n'gritty people in 
general, are going to *hate* it here, as everything they try to do to take 
control of the situation and prove how tough they are will backfire on 
them. Humorously, of course. The mechanic for this is simply automatic 
failure in any non-lethal situation where the character tries to be assertive.

Reconnection numbers
Character from Scritch is 	Character in Scritch is 
in reality of:			from reality of:
Atlantis 	12		Atlantis 	6
Avalon   	10		Avalon   	12
Aysle 		9		Aylse 		13
Aztec Empire 	8		Aztec Empire 	11
Core Earth 	8		Core Earth 	6
Cyberpapacy 	5		Cyberpapacy 	8
Kantovia 	18		Kantovia 	7
Land Below* 	13		Land Below* 	8
Lereholm 	19		Lereholm 	7
Living Land 	16		Living Land 	11
Magna Verita 	10		Magna Verita 	6
Nile Empire 	3		Nile Empire 	9
Nippon Tech 	10		Nippon Tech 	7
Olympus 	13		Olympus 	10
Orrorsh 	5		Orrorsh 	12
Pulse's cosm 	16		Pulse's cosm 	13
Star Sphere 	5		Star Sphere 	12
Terra 		8		Terra 		8
Tharkold 	3		Tharkold 	10
Tz'Ravok 	12		Tz'Ravok 	5
Dullsville 	6		Dullsville  	9
Oith      	8		Oith      	9
* also Arachnidia and Gehenna

UPDATE 1993
  Here is a general description of the situation that I figured out for 
1993. It's more or less copied directly from my summary notes that I 
made around mid-year. 
  The Oith High Lord identified the main dangers to her invasion as 
being the subtle and devious 3327 and Cyberpope. The Orrorshans she 
choose to ignore as a secondary problem. After all, how could the 
horrors terrorise into incapacitating insanity beings who are already 
effectively insane?; how could they destroy foes that don't stay dead?; 
and how could they maintain the edge given to them by the Power of 
Fear over beings who overcome the perseverance numbers faster than 
anyone else because of the Law of Perseverance?
  Then the Gaunt Man returned, and the Orrorsh realm began to expand 
again. Not north, but east and south; onto the Australian mainland which 
String intended to claim as her own territory. The incensed the Oith 
High Lord, and she immediately launched a direct confrontation with 
Orrorsh by tearing up Orrorshan stelae and dropping another maelstrom 
bridge to create a band of Oith/Orrorsh mixed zones along the northern 
coast. This course of action is rash, foolish, and potentially suicidal, 
but that's the type of thing that's to be expect from a cartoon. 
  The scary thing is that it appears to be working.
  The Gaunt Man, apparently expecting this response, launched a limited 
assault on the cartoons in northern Australia. In return the cartoons, 
goaded into greater opposition by the Law of Perseverance, have 
increased their efforts to match. The result is a stalemate.
  The Gaunt Man, however, has not thrown large amount of resources 
into this war, and seems to be testing the cartoons. The nightmares and 
horrors in the field aren't dealing with it like that, and are not being 
subtle. They have increased the amount of fear to almost palpable levels 
reminiscent of nowhere else save perhaps Gaea. Core Earth populations 
have fled, and only the bravest or most foolhardy of Storm Knights 
adventure there. The place is a war zone in every sense (And it is not 
helped by a number of renegade horrors that have arrived to take 
advantage of the combination of Orrorsh's Power of Fear and Oith's 
Law of Humour. In this area, even if Storm Knights can learn a horror's 
True Death, build up enough Perseverance to overcome the Power of 
Fear, and actually destroy the monster, there's still no guarantee it'll 
stay dead! <eek!>).
  But no matter how much fear the horrors successfully spread they 
cannot seem to translate that into geographical gains. Indeed, there is 
circumstantial evidence that the reverse may be happening. The advance 
of Oith is almost imperceptibly slow, so that it will take almost half a 
century to threaten the Borneo maelstrom bridge, but it is real.
  This situation cannot be maintained by either side, as it is too great a 
drain on resources for either realm. String is unlikely to abandon it 
though, as the Law of Perseverance has her in a state of absolute pig-
headedness. The Gaunt Man, however, is far more wily. While he could 
throw everything at Oith and crush it by main force, it is far more likely 
that he will propose an alliance with String with an excuse of brilliantly 
convoluted rational that he was testing her to see if she was a worthy 
ally in conquering Earth now that 3327 has gone renegade. The Gaunt 
Man can slowly corrupt the cartoons from within, which is always the 
more pleasurable option of doing things anyway. After all, that's how he 
dealt with the ravagons, and look how useful they've been.
  The stelae zones at this time have been split into two areas, the south-
east and the north-east. The south-east has fourteen zones, of which only 
one, around Sydney and Canberra, is pure; the others are dominant. 
There is now a triangle reaching out to the Spencer Gulf and covering 
Adelaide (which is a Core Earth hardpoint), as well as a line of five 
zones on the northern side of the initial invasion areas, covering most of 
New South Wales, but just missing Armidale.
  In the north-east there are eleven zones. The maelstrom bridge is 
midway up Cape York Peninsula, creating the only pure zone in the 
north. The pure zone has two dominant zones reaching down south of it; 
it is also acting as the southernmost of a six zone hexagon that reaches 
up to midway between Australia and New Guinea. Where the 
northernmost of these dominant zones comes in contact with three 
Orrorsh triangles they form a mixed zone.

UPDATE 1994
  I haven't really got much more than a vague idea of what's going on in 
1994. <sigh> String fell for the Gaunt Man's alliance and the Gaunt Man 
set in motion a plan to take India. Orrorsh was to advanced overland 
from the south-east as a distraction, then drop a bridge in Sri Lanka, 
while Oith dropped a bridge in the Punjab for a pincer movement. This 
was slowed to a stop by the events of the adventure No Quarter Given; 
Orrorsh doesn't have the resources to expand at the moment, and Oith is 
sitting where it is, barely managing to absorb the massive amounts of 
possibility energy that the high population density in the area is 
liberating. With the Gaunt Man's current main plan being to lure all the 
Darkness Devices into his control, it seems likely any attempts on his 
part to take India will be slow, token gestures.
  The stelae zones of Oith at this time have multiplied mainly in the 
north. A string of eleven more zone have spread across the northern 
coastline to link up with the Core Earth dominant zone covering Timor, 
totally enclosing the Arafura Sea. This Sea has four stelae zones 
arranged in a triangle that could become non-Core Earth, if either High 
Lord wanted to bother with expending the possibilities to energies what 
is essentially empty sea. Four of the stelae zones are dominant Oith, 
with six mixed zones where Oith contacts existing Orrorsh stelae areas 
(three on either side of the Arafura). There is a third maelstrom bridge 
at Katherine, creating another pure zone.
  Elsewhere, there is one pure zone and maelstrom bridge in Punjab, and 
four new dominant zones in north-eastern NSW, covering Armidale and 
threatening Brisbane, prompting the movement of the national capital to 
Perth.
  Meanwhile, Orrorsh has both expanded north and north-west. Four 
dominant zones now cover Mindanao and the nearby Philippine islands. 
It has also added three zones to extend up into Burma.

