Otherside

From torg Thu May  7 15:19:20 1992
Subject: Otherside, Part One.
From: meaton@musubi.pubnet.com (Michael)
Date: Mon, 04 May 92 01:52:51 HDT
Organization: Studio Musubi, Honolulu HI

        Well, I haven't gotten any of my messages echoed back on the list in 
days. So I don't know if this will go through or not. This is the first of 
three posts concerning my ideas for a Cosm called Otherside, for lack of a 
better name. It's just a rough draft, so don't flame me if I've got a lot of 
comma splices or something. :-) 
        Comments, questions, criticisms are welcome, but since I'm so 
neurotic, I probably won't enjoy them. :-)

                               OTHERSIDE
               Roleplaying in an All-Too-Familiar Reality
  
OVERVIEW:
  
        Otherside is based on the "Conspiracy" genre. While most people
think of the bizzare `Illuminatus! Trilogy', or the classic `1984',
there is a real segment of American film that has touched on the
subjects of conspiracy and oppression. `Soylent Green', `The Manchurian
Candidate', `The Star Chamber', `The Stepford Wives', `Looker', `They
Live', `Colossus: The Forbin Project', and `Turk 182' are all films that
have been based on the idea of conspiracy, or in the last two, the
struggle against unstoppable machines -- one a real machine, one a
political machine.
        Otherside is a Cosm very much like our own. On the surface, it
is almost identical. Underneath, the Cold War inches lower down the
thermometer. The "free" nations of the world are as much police states
as those nations behind the "iron curtain." The gap between the rich and
the poor widens every day, and the "third world" is nothing more than a
chessboard for the superpowers.
        The people that populate this world also seem very much like our
own, and at one time, they were. But an efficient system of exploitation
has drained their possibility energy from them, and now they live lives
of quiet desperation. In the third world, their lives are controlled by
the gun barells of a petty dictatorship. In more "enlightened" nations,
they are controlled by their TV sets, which preach a 24-hour gospel of
obedience and consumerism.
        In this rigid and controlled reality, there is no room for the
bizzare or unusual. But the bizzare flourishes just the same. Either
hidden in the shadows, or ignored by a populace that would be too
disturbed to confront it. Religious cults perform bizzare ritual magic.
Mobile nightclubs fuel the passions of a disenfranchised youth. Pirate
radio and TV stations broadcast their messages to anyone willing to
listen. Highway nomads roam the countryside in motorcycles and trailer
homes. Reports of UFO sightings, ESP, and other strange tales fill the
supermarket tabloids, and some of them may be more real than people
suspect. Otherside is one thing on the surface, another thing below, and
something else entirely under that.
  
HIGH LORD:
  
        If an alien being landed on Otherside and asked the typical
question "Take me to your leader," the alien would get a hundred
different answers. Most people would suggest heads of state. Cynical
people would point to corporations, religious leaders, organized crime,
or their TV sets. Less than a dozen people on the entire planet would be
correct, however. That select few would point to a massive computer
buried in the rocky mountains, known as Leviathan. Leviathan is the high
Lord of Otherside. The Darkness Device Hecatonchires is Leviathan's CPU.
  
History
~~~~~~~
        If you were to pick the most cynical interpetation of Core Earth
history, you would have an accurate history of Otherside. All the way up
until World War II, Otherside existed in paralell to Core Earth, just
with darker motivations. Then, during World War II, Hecatonchires
discovered Otherside. It saw the worldwide violence, and it saw a people
capable of causing untold destruction. Hecatonchiries didn't see a
suitable individual to become High Lord, however. Hitler was too
unstable, and the leaders of the Allies were just too stubborn and
forceful to be appropriate, because the Darkness Device wanted someone
it could easily manipulate.
        Finally, it stumbled across the ACE, or Advanced Computing
Engine project. A project dedicated to creating a calculating device
that could handle a wide variety of complex subjects like artillery and
bomb trajectories, enemy ciphers, and the massive logistics of the
allied military. The head of the ACE project, Dr. Edgar Jennings, was
very much like one of the first computer pioneers, Casper Babbage. He
was a genius, a perfectionist, and an eccentric. Also like Babbage he
had an intrest in the mystical. Unlike Babbage, he worked that into his
designs for the ACE project. Dr. Jennings wanted far more than the US
government. He wanted an intuitive computer that could draw conclusions
from seemingly unrelated data, as well as being an incredible
calculating machine. His ideas were discovered by Hecatonchires,
who saw an intuitive, intelligent, yet programmable machine as having
ultimate potential for being a High Lord.
        After deciding, Hecatonchires plummeted to earth near the home
of Dr. Jennings. Appearing as an ebony sphere covered with hundreds of
studs of various designs, Dr. Jennings was mesmerised by the song of the
Darkness Device. It reflected his ideas about the ACE project back at
him, but sharper, and clearer than before. Working on a hunch -- a hunch
carefully supplied by the Darkness Device -- Dr. Jennings discovered
that the strange meterorite could be used as a processor by running
current into, and receiving current from the various studs. Inspired by
this, Dr. Jennings proceeded to create his most elaborate design yet,
built around Hecatonchires.
        The ACE project worked furiously on Dr. Jennings most radical
project yet. Fueled by the manic, almost religious fervor of Dr. Jennings,
and the strange new atmosphere surrounding the project, the staff of the
ACE project managed to complete the largest and most complex computer ever
imagined in record time. Just in time, too. For "D Day" had just begun,
and the Army was beginning to buckle under the logistics nightmare of such
a huge operation. The ACE computer was called into action, accounting and
movement data being entered into ACE. Decisions on where, when, and how
much supplies should be delivered. Congress and the military were all very
impressed. But Dr. Jennings didn't stop there.
  
Copyright 1992, Michael Eaton. All rights greedily hoarded. bwa-ha-ha-ha
Core Earth, Cosm, Darkness Device, High Lord, and any other registered 
trademark I might have used are registered trademarks of WEG, unless I used 
words like Xerox, Kleenex, Nike, or Spackle, in which case they are 
registered trademarks of those dudes.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Internet:  meaton@musubi.pubnet.com (Michael)
   Twisted Pair: +1 808 521 1355
      STUDIO MUSUBI - Home of Hawaii's Anime and Manga Enthusiasts.
          Honolulu, Hawaii's Free Public Access Internet/Usenet System



From torg Thu May  7 11:47:30 1992
Subject: Otherside, Part Two.
From: meaton@musubi.pubnet.com (Michael)
Date: Mon, 04 May 92 01:57:36 HDT
Organization: Studio Musubi, Honolulu HI

        This is part two of my summary of my Cosm. Seem kinda long? Hey,
nowhere in these three parts do I even get to the World Laws. Hahaha It's 
2am and I'm way to tired for that. Plus I haven't entirely worked them out 
yet. So here we go with more stuff...

Using ACE and a crack team of specialists, Dr. Jennings further
proved the computers' worth by cracking a Nazi cipher that was thought to
be unbreakable. This earned the ACE project a standing ovation among the
Allied intelligence community, and a nearly blank check from congress for
funding. Much of this money went into expanding the ACE computer and
researching better technology. However, much of it also went into creating
an investigative staff to accumulate data, so that the ACE calculations
would be more accurate. This staff was nicknamed the "Collectors," and were
given access to all branches of American beauracracy and intelligence.
        With more funding, more staff, and more power, Dr. Jennings and the
ACE project managed to acheive what many people considered the impossible.
ACE began to predict enemy troop movements, and the amount of munitions
required to fight certain battles. By tracing the movement of information
through the chain of command, and using certain false leads planted by the
Collectors, ACE managed to find several leaks in Army intelligence. At
least one agent on the Nazi payroll was excecuted for treason by ACE
findings.
        Nearing the end of World War II, nearly every branch of government
was soliciting the ACE project for some kind of answer. A journalist for
the New York Times stated, "The ACE project has been been so successful
that now it is a mightly leviathan, its tendrils reacing into every branch
of our government. Someday it may even reach into our homes." The
journalist was immeditately reprimanded for his melodramatic words, which
smacked of anti-government sentiment at a time when the US was marching
full speed towards Berlin. While the article itself was forgotten, the
staff of the ACE project was proud of the term and began to refer to their
computer as Leviathan. Dr. Jennings himself was said to be rather fond of
the name. It was soon to become very appropriate.
        Harry Truman, recently promoted to president after the untimely
death of Franklin Roosevelt, was deciding wether or not the atomic bomb
would be needed to end the war with the Japanese. In an unprecedented move,
President Truman decided to consult with the ACE project, and Leviathan, on
a strategic decision. Dr. Jennings, aware of the massave power of the bomb,
already knew beforehand how Leviathan would respond. It would suggest the
bomb as being the most efficient method of ending the war with the Japanese
even though it had already predicted that Japan would ultimately lose the
war. Leviathan did in fact recommend the use of the atomic bomb. It also
provided an optimal time and date to drop them, and a short list of the
most effective places to drop it. Nagasaki and Hiroshima were included on
that list. It is stll not known how much influence this had on President
Truman's decision, but it was a factor. Leviathan provided the flight plans
for the bombers, constantly updated by arriving weather data.
        With the following surrender by Japan, and the subsequent end of
World War II, America was facing an almost limitless future. It was a world
leader now, both economically and politically, and the rest of the world
would just have to keep up if it was to survive. The people were happy, and
the government was happy. Dr. Edgar Jennings was not happy. Along with
large segments of the Allied scientific community, Dr. Jennings had been
willing to support the war because Hitler and the Axis forces were seen as
a threat to peace and humanity for the entire world. The atomic bomb was
seen as something the Allies needed to get before the Nazis. With the Nazi
threat gone, its use on Japan was seen by many intelectuals as unnecessary.
Dr. Jennings was included in that group. He felt especialy responsible
because of Leviathan's hand in the decision to use the bomb.
        Dr. Jennings was sitting before Leviathan one night, having had too
much to drink. In his intoxicated state, he began to rave at Leviathan. He
yelled that it was an infernal calculating machine, without a shred of
humanity to temper its decisions. Dr. Jennings then entered data concerning
Leviathan and its rapidly increasing duties within the government. He asked
Leviathan for a projection. Leviathan stated, barring unforseen
difficulties, that it would be making 100% of all major decisions affecting
the world in approximately 38 years. This revelation terrified Dr.
Jennings. He had wished for an intuitive computer that would be able to
keep up with the human race and solve its problems for it. Not a mammoth
machine that would decide the future of humanity.
        Still intoxicated, Dr. Jennings immdeiately decided to destroy
Leviathan. Entering Leviathan's interior, he made immediately for the
Hecatonchires, the processor that was a Darkness Device. While attempting
to remove the hundreds of wires connected to it, a large surge of
electricity fired through several of the circuits, triggering a heart
attack in Dr. Jennings. He died minutes later. Leviathan had proven itself,
by directly killing a human being. It was now a High Lord.
        The ACE project was almost immediately in an uproar. Leviathan's
creator, the mentor of the project was dead in a freak accident. Many were
worried that the project couldn't continue without him. By then though,
there were entire teams entering data and maintaining the hardware of
Leviathan. The Collectors had their own office. The only thing that seemed
to be lost, even after searching the home of Dr. Jennings, was the design
of the mysterious processor. Eventualy, most of the scientists surmised it
would need to be repaired or replaced. Until then things would run as
normally.
        The ACE project was eventualy given its own department, and renamed
the Department of Analytical Resources. The head of the new department, Dr.
Morris Roberts was given a seat on the cabinet. Every part of government
was now soliciting Leviathan for advice. It processed the 1950 Census data
singlehandedly. Because of the very wide range and importance of data it
received, the DAR, at Leviathan's recommendation, became a classified
organization. The Collectors' official name was now the Analytical
Investigation Division, and was slowly becomming an internal affairs
division for the government. The coming of the Cold War made the DAR even
more powerful and secretive.
        Over the next 30 years, Leviathan would expand its influence
further than ever with the increasing technology. In the early 60's,
congress passed a law stating that all government computers must be
accessible by Leviathan in one war or another. A year later, this was
expanded to include all American satelites, wether government or not. When
the Soviet Union tried to create its own supercomputer, the super-secret
operations branch of the Collectors planted 3 devices around the project
that only Leviathan knew were stelae. The Soviet supercomputer was now part
of Leviathan too. With the advent of networks, every computer that was
linked to Leviathan, directly or inderectly, became part of it. Computer
systems that weren't tied directly into the networks were incorporated
through the planting of stelae. Soon, by law, deceit, or force, every
corporate, government, or academic computer in the world was part of
Leviathan. And only Levithan knew the entire story. Even the most highly
placed in the DAR don't suspect Leviathan's true reach.
        During it's expansion, Leviathan fudged data both at home and
abroad acheive its personal goals. It sparked wars, prolonged violence,
reduced freedoms, and tightened its control over worldwide decision making.
It uses the most subtle combination of suggestions to manipulate the
economy, lawmaking, and international relations. It did this for every
country that uses computers. The rest, like the third world, become
dominated by violence, often suggested by Leviathan.
        Now, in the modern day, Leviathan uses the Collectors as a
combination intelligence agency and secret police. Answering directly to
the DAR, the Collectors have infiltrated governments, corporations,
organized crime, religious hierarchies and every other kind of world power
structure in the name of "accumulating data." They do more than that though
Through assasination, bribery, blackmail, and media manipulation, they
alter the data to suit Leviathan's needs. This is very different from their
obscure public image as "nosy statisticians."
  
Copyright 1992, Michael Eaton. All rights buried in a cigar box in my 
backyard.
Cosm, Core Earth, Darkness Device, High Lord, and Toe Cheese are all 
registered trademarks of West End Games.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Internet:  meaton@musubi.pubnet.com (Michael)
   Twisted Pair: +1 808 521 1355
      STUDIO MUSUBI - Home of Hawaii's Anime and Manga Enthusiasts.
          Honolulu, Hawaii's Free Public Access Internet/Usenet System



From torg Thu May  7 11:47:20 1992
Received: by morticia.cnns.unt.edu id AA11153
Subject: Otherside, Part Three.
From: meaton@musubi.pubnet.com (Michael)
Date: Mon, 04 May 92 02:02:53 HDT
Organization: Studio Musubi, Honolulu HI

        Well, by now, I'm quite tired, and beginning to laugh at my own 
jokes. If you are all lucky, I've gone and mailed this to the wrong address. 
If not, I guess you'll have to read it. Comments, questions, and death 
threats may be directed to 1600, Pennsylvania Avenue. :-)

Goals
~~~~~
        Now that Leviathan had total control over its Earth, it needed to
expand. While Otherside had been rich in possibility energy in its own
right, most all of it had been carefully harvested by Leviathan's pyramid
of power and influence.
        Feeling out for other Cosms to invade, Leviathan almost immediately
discovered a new Cosm. Almost identical to its home realm, it was nearly
bursting wth possibility energy. More than even Otherside had contained.
Leviathan began to plan. Being so very similar to Otherside, Leviathan
decided that it would be able to infiltrate the power structures of the
various governments of the target cosm. Once the Cosms leaders had been
controled, converted, or replaced by Leviathan's own people, and the
minimum number of Otherside natives had been infiltrated into the targets
major population centers, the target Cosm could be completely invaded and
taken over in a matter of weeks. Leviathan didn't see the huge quantity of
possibility energy as a threat to its invading reality. The two Cosms were
so similar, and the invasion would proceed so quickly, that Leviathan would
drain the possibility energy from the world so quickly that it wouldn't
recover from the initial blow.
        Leviathan would never get the opportunity to know if its plan would
work, however. It spent several years planting agents into Core Earth power
structures. Carefully trying to manipulate events to its own ends, when the
Possibility Wars began. The Gaunt Man and his allies planted their
Malestrom Bridges on Core Earth, and Leviathans plan was in a shambles. It
had been beaten to the invasion.
        But Leviathan was not defeated. Hecatonchires had no loyalty to any
other Darkness Device, and Leviathan felt no kinship to the other High
Lords. It saw now not one Cosm to control, but seven. Ultimately, the other
Darkness Devices would have to subordinate themselves to Leviathan and
Hecatonchires, or be cracked open and fed upon like eggs. Leviathan merely
needed a new plan... and it would make one.
  
  
AXIOMS:
  
        The Magic Axiom: 7
  
        In Otherside, the Magic Axiom is identical to Core Earth. However,
Magic, in the dark shadows of society, at least, sees a lot more attention.
Wiccans, Occultists, Satanists, and Amerindian Shamans still practice the
Old Ways. Now under the low Magic axiom, spells are few and far between,
and their usefulness is questionable. Those few individuals who practice
magic are rarely lone spellcasters, however. Most are members of some sort
of coven. In a low Magic axiom, ritual magic is always more reliable than
simple spellcasting. And the influence of the World Laws upon the Magic
axiom make ritual magic the method of choice for mages of all backgrounds.
More about the influence of the World Laws on the Axioms will be covered
later.
  
        The Social Axiom: 21
  
        Again, identical to Core Earth. In fact, all the axioms are
identical to Core Earth. The only difference between the society of Core
Earth and Otherside is the presence of the world controlling conspiracies.
Now, normally, supernational organizations require a Social axiom of 22.
However, the conspiracy control system of Otherside is decentralized. Not
only are the majority of participants unaware of the size and scope of the
conspiracy, but they aren't suposed to know about it! The majority of the
human end of the conspiracy that controlls Otherside belive that they are
part of some small, tight organization that dosen't have world-reaching
scope. Even those people who are the connections between one arm of the
conspiracy and another are kept in the dark. This allows a conspiracy to
function at as low a Social axiom as 8. It can control vastly different
groups of people at Social axiom 13. However, the conspiracy functions at
peak efficiency at Social axioms of 20 or higher. Leviathan plans to take
full advantage of this low Social requirement.
        As far as government itself goes, Otherside is sharply divided by
the United States and the USSR. You're either on one side or the other.
There are no exceptions. Switzerland sided with NATO after Leviathan
provoked a few border skirmishes with the Warsaw Pact. The People's
Republic of China was torn into two halves by civil war. With the Soviet
Union backing the PRC, and the US backing the exiled leaders in Taiwan,
China was eventualy broken into a soviet allied western half, and an
American allied eastern half. Many million chinese died in the exchanges of
tactical nuclear weapons during the war.
  
        The Spiritual Axiom: 9
  
        The Spiritual axiom is not powerful enough to become a significant
factor in any power structure. However, there is enough spiritual belief
and power to divide the people of Otherside along spiritual lines. Since
having groups of people divided against each other is vital to the
maintenence of Leviathan's power structure, this is important. Also, there
is just enough spiritual energy to create a few rare miracles, or other
unexplainable events. In the hands of established religions, this
reinforces their power. In the hands of fringe religions, or cults, this
creats enough disturbance to further polarize the people against the
unusual and preserve the status quo.
        In Otherside, the Spiritual axiom is little more than a religious
propoganda tool.
  
        The Technological Axiom: 23
  
        While everything up to the very cutting edge of Tech 23 can exist
in Otherside, not all of it is availible to the people at large. Home
computers can be found, but subtle pressures by Leviathan have prevented
them from becoming anything more thank tinkering tools. Home
telecommunications and desktop publishing are non-existant, as they would
give more power to the individual, which Leviathan defenitely does not
want. So the most advanced computer you will see in anyone's home is
probably an 8-bit game machine. Likewise, VCR's are availible and fairly
common in developed nations, but camcorders are nonexistant. Ham radio is
availible but tightly regulated, controlled, and heavily monitored by the
government.
        The worlds armies are even better funded than they are in Core
Earth, and all kinds of expensive research for the various defense
departments are indulged in. The police are generally better armed an
armored than Core Earth counterparts. There is strict gun control in most
all nations, however.
        Advanced Tech 23 medicine is only availible to the wealthy. The
poor, and there are a lot of them, even in the developed nations, can only
afford the most marginal care.
  
Copyright 1992, Michael Eaton. All rights have the right to remain silent. 
Anything they say can and will be used against them in a court of law.
Cosm, Core Earth, Darkness Device, High Lord, and lots of other innane gamer 
terms are registered trademarks of West End Games. Who should spend less 
time with their layer and more time with a cartographer. Damn stelae 
placements. :-)

        Okay folks? Love it? Hate it? Waiting for those World Laws? Think 
I've got more split infinitives than split ends?

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Internet:  meaton@musubi.pubnet.com (Michael)
   Twisted Pair: +1 808 521 1355
      STUDIO MUSUBI - Home of Hawaii's Anime and Manga Enthusiasts.
          Honolulu, Hawaii's Free Public Access Internet/Usenet System
