From supernet!letni!smunews!postoffice.smu.edu!CUNYVM.CUNY.EDU!DICKINSN.Bitnet!GIRARDOT Sun Dec  9 19:04:07 1990
Return-Path: <supernet!letni!smunews!postoffice.smu.edu!CUNYVM.CUNY.EDU!DICKINSN.Bitnet!GIRARDOT>
Received: by supernet.haus.com (/\=-/\ Smail3.1.18.1 #18.16)
	id <m0iibw2-0008AyC@supernet.haus.com>; Sun, 9 Dec 90 19:04 CST
Return-Path: <letni!smunews!postoffice.smu.edu!CUNYVM.CUNY.EDU!DICKINSN.Bitnet!GIRARDOT>
Received: by supernet.haus.com (/\=-/\ Smail3.1.18.1 #18.16)
	id <m0iiMWc-00083pC@supernet.haus.com>; Sun, 9 Dec 90 08:36 GMT
Received: by letni.LoneStar.org (/\=-/\ Smail3.1.17.5 #17.11)
	id <m0iiI4L-0001R9C@letni.LoneStar.org>; Sat, 8 Dec 90 21:51 CST
Received: by smunews.smu.edu (/\=-/\ Smail3.1.18.1 #18.1)
	id <m0iiHvg-000C8bC@smunews.smu.edu>; Sat, 8 Dec 90 21:42 CST
Received: by postoffice.smu.edu (/\=-/\ Smail3.1.18.1 #18.18)
	id <m0iiI08-0002kaC@postoffice.smu.edu>; Sat, 8 Dec 90 21:46 PST
Message-Id: <m0iiHzw-0002kYC@postoffice.smu.edu>
Received: from DICKINSN.Bitnet by CUNYVM.CUNY.EDU (IBM VM SMTP R1.2.2MX) with BSMTP id 9446; Sat, 08 Dec 90 22:42:37 EST
Date: Sat, 8 Dec 90 22:39:17 edt
From: "Phazer Keneticus (Girardot, David)" <GIRARDOT%DICKINSN.BITNET@CUNYVM.CUNY.EDU>
To:   TORG-L@SUPERNET.LONESTAR.ORG
Subject: Synerstralia
Sender: cluther


        First of all, let me apologize for the false start a while back.
This time, I think I can do it right.  For you MAC users, I have sent a
Binhexed sit archive of the file to TORG-OWNER for archiving, assumedly it
will appear there soon.  For those others of you I include a plain text
version of it here.  Note the rather skinny margins, I had to do this because
of a discontinuity in width between my VAX and my MAC, and I apologize
profusely.  If you do take the archived version you will get and added bonus,
my version of the torg character sheet (including the back section for
picture, background, personality, and equipment.)  The front half of the
character sheet, and Synerstralia, were created on MAC Wordperfect 1.0
format.The back of the sheet (with its complicated graphics and format,) was
created on Superpaint.

        Whichever version you take, keep in mind that I do hold copyright for
the Synerstralia cosm, and unfortunately, it may not be distributed without
my express permission.  (I have allowed the torg-owner to distribute it via
his archives, so anyone who wants it can get it from there.)  I hope you all
enjoy Synerstralia, and please do send me any feedback you come up with.

        Well, here it is...

=============================  CUT HERE ===============================

TORG(tm)  Infiniverse Supplement
The Megalopolis
 Synerstralia(tm)
DISCLAIMER: Torg, The Possibility Wars, The Infiniverse, Nippon
Tech, The Cyberpapacy, Core Earth, Nile Empire, Possibility
Energy, and all other distinctive elements of the TORG game by West
End Games, and related material by West End Games are all
trademarks of West End Games.  The material presented here is
copyrighted 1990 (All Rights Reserved) by the author,David M
Girardot, in that it is an original work.
        The following is an original fiction work intended to supplement
the West End Game, TORG: Adventuring in the Possibility Wars(tm).
Any similarity to persons, places, events (real or imagined) is
purely coincidental and was not intended.  While Synerstralia is
created for West End's TORG(tm) framework, it cold concievably be
used in any gaming system.

* A Note: The wierd hyphens occured in a prior version in which I had the
whole thing columnated.  Ignore them, otherwise be my guest and take them out.

* Also Note: This work may not be distributed without the express permission
of the author, David M Girardot.


SYNERSTRALIA

        Synerstralia is a sprawling Megalopolis
covering most of the planet.  An amazing test-
ament to the technological and social
achievements to the men that dwell there.
The citi-zens of Synerstralia are well adjusted
individuals.  All their needs are cared for by
the Council, and the Director of the Council
sees to it that every citizen is happy.  This
amazing achieve-ment is made possible by the
importance the soc-iety places on technology.
The Council is a Technocracy, staffed by
Syner-stralia's most brilliant sci-entists and
engineers.  Made up by the most in-telligent
and educated minds in the world, the Council
is capable of mak-ing policy that is ultimately
the best for the citizens.  The Director--being
the most brillaint scientist in that his sci-
ence brings the most ben-efits to Synerstralia-
-has the final say on policy.  Thus, everyone
is happy.  The current Director of
Synerstralia is Dr. Ed-mund Trask, a brilliant
genetic engineer and Bio-Physicist.  Trask
has been Director for a very long time,
because it was he who gifted Synerstralia
with the greatness it was today.  It was he who
pro-duced the Augments, the foundations of
Synerstralia's society.

THE RISE OF THE MEGALOPOLIS

        Trask was the one man responsible for Syner-
stralia as it is known to-day.  He was the dis-
coverer of the Z-Chrom-osome, and the first to
realize its potential.
        Trask then conducted a ten-year search for
those with the Trask-factor, mut-ants as he
called them.  The world laughed at him.  From
his search, Trask found a group of perhaps
fifty individuals with psy-chic ability.  In
secret, under the auspices of Paranormal
Research, Trask built a star-chamber, that
was the foundation of his soon-to-be-built
corporation, Trask inc.  The psychics gave
Trask Inc. an edge other companies couldn't
compete with.  By the time the others found
out about his secret, Trask was so entrenched
with power there was nothing they could do
about it.  Trask owned nearly seventy percent
of the world market in a pure monopoly.  He
had most governments in his pocket.  He was
the leader of the world.  His first act was to
annex California and Chicago from the rest of
the world.  The US government was powerless
to stop him.  Then he began his own
government.  Synerstralia was formed.  The
conquering of the rest of the world took about
a hundred years.  As his plan fell into place
Trask betrayed the Mutants, turning them
into slaves using a special Augmentation
process.

SOCIAL STRUCTURE

        Synerstralia runs through the labors of the
Augments.  It is through this slave labor that
the Citizens (normal humans) can enjoy the
benefits of Synerstralia's technology.  All
births are rigidly controlled by the
government.  Mutants are identified at birth
and shunted into the Augmentation program,
normal children are allowed to their parents.
Some wealthy and powerful citizens object
(though even this is rare) and it is said that
the council sometimes makes exceptions...but
usually the Citizens just accept this situation
as a fact of life.  Often too, the Council will
take Mutant embryos from a mother likely to
object, replacing it with a normal embryo.
This is being done more and more.
At any rate, powerful Citizens generally do
not have Mutant children, as they generally
take pains to have "pure" genes.
Occasionally, (beuracracies are never
perfect) a Mutant child will escape detection,
too.  Or a child will be lost in the shuffle, or
escape Augmentation, or whatever.  This has
reseulted in a portion of society known as
Renegade Mutants.  These are unliscenced
Mutants (read: not slaves) who travel
incognito in hopes of staying free.  In the
vast metal and concrete jungle that is
Megalopolis, this is quite easy, especially in
the Undercity.  To combat this problem the
council formed an Augmented Police Unit
known as the Hunter Packs.  These units are
made up of Mutants augmented to be servile to
the council, ruthless, cunning, and extremely
good at tracking down and catching mutants.
There is also an elite class of Augments
known as the Psi-Knights, which is the best a
mutant can aspire too, and the place mutants
with powerful families normally are sent to.
Psi-Knights are Augments that act as
Paladin's of the state, each with awesome
abilities through their Augmentation and the
latest in Cybernetic enhancements.  Psi-
Knights are fervently loyal to the Director,
Trask.  Those with doubts are detected and
expunged.  They are also the principle means
in keeping the Hunter Packs in check.
        The Hunter Packs and Psi-Knights (to a much
lesser extent) are also employed as a police
force within the Citizens, though not
frequently as Citizens do not like dealing with
Mutants in a position of authority.  Note that
once again, the Psi-Knights are a different
case, these are seen as the guardians of All
That is Good.

AUGMENTATION

        AUGMENTATION is a general term for an
involved process that is calculated into
turning Mutants into an effecient slave force.
There are two main aspects of this process,
Indoctrination-Personality adjustment and
Genetic Augmentation.



Indoctrination And
Personality Adjustment

        This process is ideally begun at birth.
Mutants are born in creches (or Vats) in huge
underground buildings known as the
nursery.  Right out of the Vats, the new
Mutant is taught the principles of conformity,
loyalty, authority, ad nauseaum through
various methods of propaganda.  Additionally,
the growing child is subjected to special
brainwashing sessions with computers and
Psychics that instill these as suggestions
forcefully within there brain.  Drugs and
these same tactics are also use d to slowly
erode the personality.  By age 10 the child is
Indocrinated.  A good little mutant.

Genetic Augmentation

        This process, again is begun ideally at birth,
as it can be dangerous, and even impossible
past puberty.  This process involves skillful
use of technology by genegineers and by
Psychotechnology.  Before Augmentation,
most mutants are mostly normal.  In general
they are more healthy or more intelligent.
All Mutants have latent Potential, as defined
by their Z-chromosome, but few express it
without special augmentation--only about 5%
are born with paranormal ability, and of that
5%, less than 1% of 1% have their abilities
fully expressed.  Renegade Mutants with no
apparent ability (or defined ability) are
known as Latents.  Latents are especially
feared by the government as they are so
unpredictable--latent abilities tend to flare up
in tense situations, and such flare-ups are
usually quite destructive.  During Augmenta-
tion, latent abilities are identified and
catalogued.  From there the computers and the
Genegineers decide what abilities to Augment,
and what ones to surpress--based on the
computers predictions of needs.  Mutants are
Augmented, usually , for a specific place in
society.  The two most common augmentations
are those for the labor corps (Mutants
augmented for strength, stamina) and the psi-
corps (mutants augmented for psychic ability,
specifically telekinesis, precognition, and
telepathy.)  Another common augment is for
the Hunter Packs, in which the Mutant is
augmented for speed, toughness, cunning,
and dangerousness.  In Augments which are
given full power, the genegineers typically
install a Pinducer Chip in the Augie's brain.
This chip is keyed to all government
employess, and most machinery, and can be
caused to stimulate pain and intense nausea.
Pinducers are coming more and more into use
as the Government becomes paranoid.  Psi-
Knights hardly ever require such a
treatment, though that does not mean that
they have them.
        Besides genetic augmentation, Augie's may
get cybernetic augmentation for further
enhancement of their abilities.  This is
extremely common in the Hunter Packs, Psi-
Knights, and Psi-Corps, and to a lesser extent
in the Labor Corps.  Cybernetic
enhancements come with even more devices
like the Pinducer, including self-destruct
devices, tracers, etc.
        Finally, all mutants are given their IDskin, a
color-coded cyber-flesh garment that
replaces their skin.  Marked upon it is the
Aug's ID number, work section, and numerous
other things.  This information is also in the
Boneprint (a special tattoo on the bone of the
right arm which every Citizen of Synerstralia
has.)
        Once a mutant is Augmented, he is known as
an Augment, or Aug, or Augie, or even
Genejoke.  At this point most traces of
individuality and even humanity are gone.
However, the vagaries of the human
condition, the inefficiency of beuracracies,
and even the indomital human will sometimes
cause mistakes to slip by.  About 1 in a million
Aug's will turn renegade, a low number, but
to the government, scary nonetheless--and
that explains the Pinducer chips and all the
rest.  However, these can be circumvented too.

Renegades

        The Renegades are Edmund Trask's worst
nightmare.  They are Latents, Mutants, or
Augments--who for whatever reason--have
continued to exist free despite all the counter-
measures: Pinducers, Indoctrination, Hunter
Packs.  Edmund Trask is a fearful bigot, and
his worst fear is a mutant uprising.  His fears
are coming true.  An underground resistance
of Mutants has formed, the Mutant
Brotherhood, and its militant/terrorist right
arm, the Legion of Avengers.  No matter how
hard he tries, Trask cannot eradicate the
problem.  And things are becoming more dif-
ficult...suffrage is gain-ing popularity with
in-fluential citizens, there is talk about it in
the council even.  So Trask tries harder...
        Little information will be furnished about the
Brotherhood, and the Legion, so that it may
take on its own flavor in your campaign.
Game Mechanics:
How things work in
Synerstralia:

The Axioms of Synerstralia:
Magic: 2Spiritual:
0Social:26Tech
:26
        At first glance it may appear that Syner-
stralia's axioms are too much like those of
Nippon Tech(tm), ie low magic, high tech,
high social, low spiritual axiom, and in truth,
Synerstralia does possess a grim corporate
world, but there are subtle differences, and
some not so subtle ones--such as the plight of
the mutants.  Additionally, while there is a
great level of technology available, the
average citizen does not have most of it--in
fact the life of an average citizen, tech-
nologically would not be much higher than
our own.  It is the extreme scientific might of
the Council that forces such a high axiom.
Additionally, there is a high Social axiom, but
society for the average Citizen is not unlike
our own.  The primary difference is that
Synerstralia's politicians come from a pool of
scientists rather than lawyers--the
councilmen are elected by an action similar to
our own, too--and they in turn elect the
Director.  The ways of magic have been forgot-
ten, for the most part.  The planet itself is
dehumanized, being mostly concrete and steel
at this point, an immense hive of chambers
and corridors.  Again though, there is magic
practiced by some.  The axiom level is that
expressed by the average citizen.  Spiritually,
however, there is a stark difference.  There
is a fundamental belief that science is
the ultimate religion, that every-thing
is pos-sible through know-ing.  This
leaves no room for spiritualism in the sense
that we know it.   However, spirit can never
be distinguished entirely, and so on
Synerstralia it still acts, but in a more subtle
fashion.  There is the Law of Indomitable
Spirit which is currently acting to preserve
the Renegades.  Basically this law is an
extension of the Heisenberg Uncertainty
Principle, which states that science can
never totally dominate the human spirit.  In
practice this means that technological devices
will break down, computer programs will
have bugs, and there will always be
Renegades.  Think of the law as the force that
causes a flower to spring up from a crack in
the concrete.  Renegades are generally more
in touch with this law than citizens, and so it
generally acts in the Renegade's favor--
though not always apparently.  Additionally,
Renegades who are stormers also, bring this
law with them.  This law will not contradict
the Everlaw of One as that is a fundamental
concept of the Infiniverse, though ususally
unnoticed in other cosms because of a decent
Spiritual Axiom.   This effect only works when
the Renegade Stormer is in intimate personal
contact with a device identified by the law as
anti-spirit...ie a Renegade Stormer could
wreak havoc in the Godnet.  This effect is
usually only transitory unless the Renegade
Stormer spends possibilities and invokes a
reality bubble.  For instance, Jovaj, a
Renegade Storm-Knight is in the Godnet with
his fellow Storm-Knigh Jacques.  They are set
upon by some Cybergoyles and a brace of
Cyberpriests invoking damnation.  Realizing
there is no other way out, Jovaj invokes a
reality bubble.  The GM rules this situation
warrants in-vokation of the Law of
Indomitable Spirit, if Jovaj can spend 3
possibilities-- and so suddenly there is a
localized system error, which dumps Jovaj and
Jacques out of the net--frying Jacques deck of
course...

        A practical app-lication on the limits of
science by average citizens/players is the
application of the wierd science concept.
Cyberware, Psychotechnology and the like is
like wierd science to the majority of citizens,
though if they knew how they could use them-
-but that's quite rare.

Psychotechnology


HISTORY OF PSYCHO-
TECHNOLOGY

        Psychotechnology is the ultimate joining,
that of psychic-organics with
cyber-technology.  Psychotechnology  is used
extensively in Synerstralia, and indeed is the
trademark of Synerstralian science.
        Psychotechnology was developed to combat
the problems created by the interaction of the
Law of Indomitable Spirit on
conventional technology--namely, it wouldn't
always work the way it's supposed to.  The
idea, was to make technology self-aware, to an
extent--using precog and telepathy--to make
the technology anticipate and deal with
problems.  Psychotechnology is rare, because
is demands intensely specialized psy-chics
and tremendously complex machinery.  How-
ever it is also quite useful.  In systems where
breakdowns would be disasterous, Psychotech-
nology is used entirely--these systems cannot
be disabled by the Law.  Other systems use Psy-
chotech to a lesser extent, but its non-
Psychotechnical components can fail.
        The conventional approach to technology was
to take a number of Psi-Corps Aug's, and place
their brains in a fractal chain, making them
one big brain.  This was linked to psuedo-
organic computers, which were in turn
linked to conventional computers.  The result
was a super-super computer with virtually
unlimited memory, faster-than-light
computing power, and a psuedo-awareness.
However, the first Psychocomputers were
flawed, the technical parts invaribly broke
down, despite the efforts of the purely Psycho-
organic components.
        Finally a solution was discovered, to create a
mobile, self-aware Psycho-organic immune
system that would travel through the
technological parts, correcting errors.  Many
designs were tried, but finally the solution
was found in genetic material from the
common oyster.  What was created was a
bunch of psuedo-sentient psychic-mini-
oysters----controlled by the other Psycho-
organic parts---- who would travel through
the molecules of the Psychotechnical system,
anticipating and dealing with problems.   Ad-
ditionally, as the scientists were pleased to
discover, because the technology was then
largely organic, the machine went largely
unaffected by the Law, not to mention that
the Psychotechnical machines could then be
made much smaller--that alone opening up
many more applications.

        Examples of these applications included
computer interfaces,  (NOT like cybernetics.)
increasingly user-friendly (in a literal sense)
devices, and perhaps the most important--psi-
screens.
        Psi-screens are the most secret technology on
Synerstralia--available only to the very rich
and very powerful.  Psi-screens consist of a
piece worn on the person containing
Psychotechnical parts that continually
broadcast strong emotions that can totally
screen the actual thought processes of the
wearer.  Since the Council main-tains a net of
psychic ob-servers, powerful citizens are
finding it neccessary to have efficient psi-
screens if they are to continue to be powerful.
For some reason, Trask himself is totally and
completely immune to any sort of invasion of
his thoughts, even by "reading" his face.  It is
said that this is perhaps a mutant talent...but
say-ings such as that are very, very
dangerous.


PSYCHOTECHNOLOGY:  EQUIPMENT,
DEVICES, AND WEAPONS

        The following is a listing of Psychotechinical
devices, etc.  To save space, most are rated
with uniform abbreviations.  DAM# indicates
the damage number of a weapon.  RNG ///
indicates short, medium, and long range
within the backslashes.  POW indicates the
powersupply, either Biocell, a number
indicating uses, or uses over a period of time,
or unlimited.  RARE indicates a relative
measure of how rare something is, expressed
as a difficulty number.  VAL indicates the
"effective" cybervalue of the item in relation
to cybernetics.  This is used when characters
choose beginning equipment, and buy x
amount of "points" of cybernetics.   Ad-
ditionally the total VAL of Psychoware is
divided by four and this amount is the
reduction to Spirit through technologies
demoralizing effect.  Note that for Cyberware,
the entire VAL is deducted.  As an optional
rule Storm Knights may pay an adventure
cost equal to the reduction of Spirit to negate
the reduction, or any fraction thereof.  Note
that cyberpsychosis never occurs with
Psychotechnology, though the dehumanizing
effect does.  VAL may also be used as an
expression of the relative dangerousness of
the surgery, though this informatio--if
applicable--will be contained in the
description of the item.   Cost indicates an
items cost expressed as a difficulty number,
convert to appropriate units.

        Biocell Power System.  This device is
capable of powering up to 10 points of
Cyber/Psychoware indefinitely.
DAM# nil
RNG   - /  -   /-
POW  N.A.
VAL   3(not to itself)
COST  20

        Psycho-Reflexes.  This extremely
dangerous procedure creates
psycho-telepathic neurons in the Central
Nervous System, coupled with Psycho-
Technical Neural Boxes to speed information
processing.  The result is lightning fast
reflexes.  Characters DEX is effectively
increased to 15.  In any given round the
character can gain a special first strike attack
at +1 if he forgoes the DEX bonus for that
round.
DAM# -
RNG    /     /
POW  5
VAL  5
COST  25

        Solarial Skin.  This procedure involves the
implantation of special photosynthesizing
cells into the character's Epidermis.  The cells
collect and store solar energy with great
efficiency.  They can power 3 points of
Cyberware without any other effects, or 2
points with normal beneficial effects.  Normal
effects (only 2pts power provided to
Cyberware)  are: character recovers 3 points
of Shock Damage per round when exposed to
direct sunlight, character need not eat if he
has a source of sunlight, and likewise the
character has greater resistance to fatigue
when exposed to the sun, +50% to running,
swimming, lifting, etc time limits.  (Character
gains 1 Result Point when trying to push STR
or TOU.
        The side effects are that the character's skin
has a very green cast (-1 CHA) and that he
must make a TOU roll each hour out of contact
with the sun to have the fatigue effects of a
WOUND.  (Ignore any death results, this
indicates unconciousness)
DAM#-
RNG    /     /
POW     -
VAL    3
COST    30

        PsychoImmune System.  This extremely
dangerous procedure enhances the human
immune system with Psychotechnology.  The
effects are that the character is practically
immune to most diseases, and gains three
result points when resisting extremely
dangerous diseases.  Recovery time from any
injury is halved (except for K and O
conditions) and healing due to possibility
expenditure is increased by a factor of 50%.
(Round up for shock points, down for
Wounds.)
DAM#  -
RNG    /     /
POW   5
VAL   7
COST  35

        Bioweaponry.  This operation strengthens
bone structure in the arms or head and then
adds special Psychotechnical organisms
which calcify special tissue into specialized
weapons.  Common results are talons, claws, or
horns.  The organisms continually replace
the weapons so they cannot stay broken or
damaged for long, and special
neuro-machinery implanted at the sight
allows the weapons to be retracted.  (Horns
cannot be retracted.)  A base STR of 9 is
required.
        Talons                  Claws                   Horns
DAM#  STR+2                     STR+3
        STR+2*
POW      -                      -                       -

VAL      2                      3
        2
COST     10                     12
        13
* Does STR+8 on a succesful charging attack.

        Bioenhancers.  There are two forms of
Bioenhancers, STR and TOU.  Bioenhancers
are special implants that allow the character
to function at level 30 in the prospective
attribute for about 1 minutes.  The character
must make a Push roll to attempt this.  After
five minutes the character takes a Wound
result.  The character must wait at least 5
minutes before attempting this again, and
each time within an hour of the first
increases difficulty by 2.  This procedure, too
is dangerous  There are rumours of a
bioenhancer that works continually, but at a
lower level, 15 or so--but those operations
have a very small success rate and are
extremely expensive--not to mention
requiring alot of energy.  Then again, there
are some Psi-Knights with legendary
strength...
DAM#  -
RNG    /     /
POW  5
VAL  4
COST  20

        Psycho-Processor.  This is a relatively easy
to implant device that is a miniature psycho-
computer.  Its effect is to raise the mind by
three, or to 15, whichever is less.  The device
can tie in with any computer on Synerstralia.
Whether it is compatible with the Godnet or
not is up to speculation.  Most council
members have Psycho-processors.
DAM#
RNG    /     /
POW  1
VAL  2
COST  15

        Psycho-Precog-Reflex--Apparatus.  The
procedure which implants this system isn't
particularly difficult, but it is difficult to find
a subject compatible with the extremely
finicky Psycho-organisms that power it.  The
system is composed of Psycho-Organisms with
latent low-level Precognition ability, who are
wired directly into the character's nervous
system.  The over-effect is a sort of Danger
Sense, which senses and instinctively acts to
preserve the character.  In practice, the
Dodge ability becomes innate at +5.
Additionally, the character will feel queasy
and uneasy when he is about to enter a
situation the organisms recognize as
dangerous.  The organisms recognition is
quite unpredictible, and it is possible that
they may be paranoid, reacting to anything
as a life-threatening situation.  However,
when everything works out in the procedure
the organisms generally work to the players
benefit.
DAM#
RNG    /     /
POW 5
VAL 5
COST 45

        Psycho-switch.  The procedure for
implanting this device is simple and
relatively inexpensive.  A Psycho-switch
allows any Psychoware to be turned on and
off by the character mentally.  This device
will not work with Solarial Skin, however, or
Psycho-Immune Systems.  Also, a Precog-
Reflex system might not LET the character
turn it off.  In general though, it works fine.
A psycho-switch has no VAL because it is so
small.  Note that a character must have one
switch for each system he wants to turn off
and on.  The most common use for a Psycho-
switch is power conservation.
DAM#
RNG    /     /
POW  -
VAL-
COST  5

        Psycho-Skills.  These are similar to the
skilltapes of cyberware.  Basically, they are
skill of +1 to +3 adds that are implanted in a
Psycho-Processor.  Any amount of psycho-
skills may be used at once.
        There are rumours of Psysho-skills that
mimic mutant ability...
DAM#
RNG    /     /
POW  1 per skill
VAL 2 (for any amount)
COST 15, +adds, + upto GM

        Beeper.  Like the Psycho-switch, the beeper
is also an easy implant.  Basically it lets the
player constantly be aware of his geological
coordinates.  Additionally it tells him which
way home is.  Beepers are often tied in with
Augie restraint systems.
DAM#
RNG    /     /
POW  -
VAL  1
COST  10

        Tracer.  Modified Beeper which lets the
Mutants controller know where he is.  A
simple operation, but requires a medical roll
of 18 to remove.  Additionally, some beepers
have a radioctive charge implacement which
can be activated by remote.
COST  10

        MinderChip.  Piggybacks on a beeper or
Tracer.  Allows controller to see and hear
everything the victim does.  Requires a
medical AND science roll of 18/20 to remove.
COST 15

        PinducerChip.  Like a MinderChip, it
piggybacks on a beeper or tracer.  It can also
be added to any other Psychoware or be
implanted by itself.  This chip can inflict pain
on the user depending on the type.  Type D
Pinducers are installed on all mutants
Augmented or Classified by the Company (NOT
to Psychoknights) they have a damge range
of 1-5 a removal difficulty of 12 and a cost of
10.  Type C Pinducers are installed on anyone
the company is suspicious of, or who has
significant power.  They have a damage range
of 3-10, a cost of 10 and a removal difficulty of
15.  Type B Pinducers are installed in Mutants
who have been convicted of crimes, have a
damage range of 5-15, a cost of 10, and a
removal difficulty of 18.  Type A pinducers
are in all respects similar to type B except
they have a cost of 20, a difficulty of 22, and
can induce death.  That type is given to the
most dangerous criminals.
        Note that any mutant with Empathy or Blast
rates at least Type C, probably type B.
Pinducers have an effective range of 200
miles (note that the Pain Boxes that control
them can be moved to track the Pinducer, so
the range can be effectively infinite.)

NON-IMPLANTS:
        These devices are not wired into the
character (though some may be wired
through a psycho-switch into an implanted
powers supply...)

        Mind-Wasp.  This device appears like a small
rubbery device with a number of hair-like
rubbery projections.  They are colored grey
or jet black.  Mind-Wasps come in a hand-
sized case of three--if carried loose they may
be set off accidentally.  Each Mind-Wasp has
buttons which activate the fuse, then, the
mind-wasp is flung at the victim and will
latch onto the victim's head.  (The mind-wasp
will help aim, so there is a +1 bonus.)
        The mind-wasp basically stimulates every
emotion the target is capable of and at full
intensity.  The effect of this is to incapacitate
the target for a number of minutes equal to
(20-MIN).  Additionally, the target will be
confused afterward and suffer -3 on all rolls
for about an hour or so.
DAM# see above
RNG    1/ 3/ 5
POW   - (3 uses)
VAL   -
COST  15

        Psi-Blind.  This device has many
appearances, typically as an amulet or
necklace.  It projects a wall of intense
emotion to block psi-prying.  It has the effect
of raising the difficulty of any spying attempt
attempt by 10.

        Psi-Detector.  This device also has myriad
appearances.  Basically it can show direction,
distance and strength of anything with
psionic ability--including Mutants,
Psychotechnology, etc.  Its range is usually 20
yards or so.

        Psycho-com.  This is a hand-held
psychocomputer, tied into Synerstralia data-
net.  Though a great tool for information, it
has no special abilities.

        Psi-Dampners.  These must be keyed to an
individual's ability to work efficiently.  They
are manacles and a special helmet that block
Psi- ability, including normal mental
functioning at peak performance.  (Thus,
they could be used to totally block any psi-
ability (raising the DN by 30) in the proces
turning the subject comotose for the duration-
-or be used at a lower level, DN +10, to still
allow conciousness.
        There are rumours of Dampners that work at
a distance...

        Psychokiller.  This device is similar to the
mindwasp in all respects except that it
confronts the victim with it's worst fears, and
if the victim fails a MIN roll at DN 10, then he
becomes catatonic for the duration.  If the
victim fails miserably, then the effect may be
permanent.
        There are also Psycho-killers which are
much smaller and leech off Psi ability over
time, though these may be just a rumor...

        Bio-Aid Pak.  This is a special bio-organism
that--when applied--will remove the effects
of one wound, or all shock and KO conditions.
Once used, the organisms die.  They appear as
a translucent gelatinous material, usually
packaged in with the traditional first aid kit.

        Numb-Jelly.  This is similar to the Bio-Aid
organisms execpt that these are bluish in
color.  These organisms will work to stop
excessive blood loss and as a local anaestic--
putting the user into a state of calm euphoria.
In practice, they remove 3 shock, any O
condition, prevent Death due to a Mortal
wound.  The effects take about 5 minutes.
Numb-Jelly works about 5 times before
becoming useless.

        Psycho-Mesh Armour.  Psycho-mesh
appears as a light green translucent gossamer
material that is worn usually as a vest with a
hood.  The material is latent precog, and will
bunch up to cushion a blow, providing
+30/(30) protection.  Note that the
effectiveness of the protection after a
damaging attack is reduced by the result
points of the damage.  The Mesh, if allowed to
recuperate in a special solution, will
regenerate 1 point per hour.  Psycho-Mesh
doesn't encumber at all, however, it must be
worn as the outermost garment to be
effective.  Note that it will not protect versus
attacks to the legs or arms.

        MK-7, Mind-Wasp Gun.  This device
contains a magazine of 6 mindwasps, which
may be fired at a rate of 1 per turn.  They may
be of the psychokiller or normal variety.
There is another variety possible which does
a DAM # of 15 in stun damage in additional to
normal effects.  Note that Mindwasps of
different varieties may not be in the same
magazine.



        Psychotechnology is a relatively new science.
Undoubtably there will be new devices
constantly, and these are up to the GM.  Be cau-
tioned however, that Psychoware should not
be used as a replacement for Cyberware, or
for Storm Knight ability.  The proper use of
Psychoware is to add a new dimension to the
game.

Cybernetics and The Law of
Indomitable Spirit


        Cybernetics in Synerstralia are much
different from anywhere else.  Put simply,
there is no "God Net(tm)" or anything like it.
It is true that there exist such things as
man/computer links--but they must be
through a second party...Psychotechnology.
(The reason for this is the action of the Law.)
Additionally, cybernetics are seen with a sort
of skepticism, there is even a stigma attached
to them--such that only a lowly Augie would
deem to use them.  Thus, Citizens would
generally not use a cyberocular to replace a
damaged eye--but they might go to a
Genegineer and have him grow a new one.
Likewise other replacement parts.  The idea of
enhancement never occurs to the average
citizen--except perhaps in the undercity--and
then its usually biotic too, such as implanted
claws, or tusks.  In general, Synerstralians
are loathe to do something with technology of
metal that they can already do with
Genegineering.  This may appear to be in
direct conflict with the Law of Indomitable
Spirit, but in truth it is the result of it.  The
part of the law that is still active in their
bodies makes them loathe to tamper with their
bodies.  This effect has given rise to what can
be best called the Principle of Tech-
nological Depravity--which basically
states that a person's inner being is reduced
by forcing technology on the body.  A direct
effect of this Priciple is that Aug's with a
great deal of cybernetic enhancements, will
have very little Mutant power.  Of course
there are ways around this (using magic and
perversions of psychotechnology) but that is
rare.  This second prinicple brings to light
another perception of the cruelty in
Augmentation, and why cyber-enhancements
there is common--it has a dehumanizing
effect.  This has caused problems with the Psi-
Knights for example--the families don't want
their sons and daughters perverted by
cyberware--and so Psi-Knights are
Indoctrinated to give the illusion of no ill
effects.

Renegades and the Principle

        One may surmise that: Renegades are in touch
more deeply with the Law, and thus with the
principle, so are Renegades then more
restricted when it comes to Cyberware?  Yes,
and no.  On Earth, Cyberware becomes less
dehumanizing--so there's no problem.  On
Synerstralia-- a Renegade with alot of
Cyberware would therefore be in less contact
with the Principle--so it would have less
effect on him--so there is no problem.  Sort
of.  On Earth, a Renegade can invoke his
Priniciple in a reality bubble-- this causes a
Cyber-user to make a cyberpsychosis role
immediately, if he fails his Spirit drops a
point and he comes under the effect of an
extreme melancholy.  This is followed by rage,
and finally by a desire for suicide.  Note that
the effects probably won't extend far out of
the influence of Synerstralia's reality.  Still,
to ofsett this power, Renegades with alot of
Cyberware shouldn't have a Pow of more than
1.  (Unless the GM rules otherwise.)

Mutant Powers

Powers as Skills

        Mutants powers are expressed as skills for
simplicities sake (with adds and a prime
attribute).  However, unlike other skills,
mutant powers cost points at zero adds.  For
example, a power that is -5 at zero adds cost 6
points to be at +1.

The Power Skill

        Some mutants also have a special skill known
as Power.  This is a spirit skill which can be
used to increase the effectiveness of other
skills.  Using Power to bolster another skill is
known as Energizing.  Energizing takes a
duration of 5 (ten seconds) minus the adds to
the skill.  Thus a Power of +3 would take a
duration of 2 (less than a second) and could be
done within a round.  Energizing has a basic
difficulty of 10.   If a Power Skill is Energized,
the adds of Power are added to the Power skills
Effect value, plus any bonus number rolled.
        For instance, Jemm (a mutant) will fire her
Bioblast (in her case an effect value of 13).
Jemm knows she will need more than that, so
she chooses to Energize the Bioblast.  Her
Power is +3(13), she rolls a bonus number of
3.  6 points are added to the EV of the Bioblast,
for a total of 19!  Since her Power was +3, and
the duration of the energizing so short, she
can do both in one action.
        Only one power can be energized per round.
Energizing must occur before the skill is
used.  Note that if an Action or other card is
played that round, the bonus can be added to
the Energize attempt or to the Power use
attempt itself, not both.

Adventure Cost

        A Character's adventure cost is equal to his
Power.  The Adventure cost is the direct reduc-
tion in possibilities at the start, and the
amount of possibilities that must be spent at
the start of every adventure so that the Power
Skill functions at peak efficiency.  In game
terms, if the cost is not paid, then the POW
goes down by one until the Possibilities are
spent.  This effect is cumulative, and
continues until POW reaches -1, at which
point the powers no longer function.
        As a side note.  Latents have a POW in the
negatives.

Choosing Powers

        The power Skills listed below are divided into
the categories of Heightened Attributes,
Energy Powers, Mind Powers, and
Miscellaneous.  Each power has a "cost at zero
adds" which is the first number in
parenthesis.  The parenthesis also indicate
which attribute the skill adds to.
        The total adds to skills here may not exceed
the characters POW rating.  Example, Jemm
has a POW of +3 and a SPI of 10 (for a POW
rating of 13).  Her total adds to her powers
may not exceed 13.  This does not mean she
gains 13 points, only that if she were to
somehow acquire more than thirteen points,
they couldn't all be added.


OPTIONAL RULE:  The "cost at zero adds" can
also be used as a "Special Adventure Cost"
which is totalled up.  This amount, minus that
characters POW adds rating is the amount of
Possibilities deducted at character generation
only.
        None of these skills may be used unskilled.
Unless otherwise noted, all skills may be
energized.

Heightened Attributes Skills

        Note, at the start only, the POW adds can be
added directly to the adds a Heightened
attribute would add to it's primary attribute.

(0/STR)Superhuman Stamina:   This skill
directly adds to the users TOU permanently by
its number of adds.  In times of need, the
attribute can also be boosted to super-human
levels equal to +5 plus the bonus number
rolled.  The difficulty of such an action is 8,
and the  Boost lasts for only 10 seconds.  An
Energize attempt may be added to this roll.
Boosting has a Backlash of 25, which takes
effect after the boost is over.
        Example: Gunin, a Mutant with Super Stamina
of +5(13) and a POW of +3(13) adds +8 to his
TOU at the start (for a TOU of 20).  However,
Gunin is up against a powerful foe, so he
decides to boost.  He makes his skill roll with a
bn of +2, this adds another 7 to his TOU (now
27).  He could also have Energized, say he does,
with another bn of +2, this adds another +5,
for a grand TOU total of 33!  The Backlash is 25,
minus his skill total of 15, for 10  damage
number.   Sure, he's really exhausted
afterwards, but for 10 seconds he was a
superman!

(0/TOU)Superhuman Physique:  As
above, except that it acts upon STR.

(1/TOU)Superhuman Speed:  Adds to
Dexterity.  Boosts to dexterity apply only to
Dodge and Speed attempts, and other passive
skills.

(2/SPI)Superhuman Genius:  Adds to
Mind.  May not be Boosted or Energized.

(0/MIN)Heightened Senses:  Adds to
Perception for purposes of detection, finding,
tracking, etc. only.

(7/SPI)Prodigy:  Character is possesed of a
creative and active intellect and learns easily.
All Mind skills increased by the adds of this
skill.  All other skills (itself this skill itself)
are increased by half that number (round
down).  A successful skill roll (GM determines
difficulty) can be played exactly as if the
character had drawn an Idea card.

Body Skills

(0/TOU)Bioblast:  Character is able to
project his own bio-energy in a directed blast
of searing plasma.  The character is protected
from the effects of the energy.  The Backlash
for each use is 20 (minus the skill total.)  The
damage value of the blast is equal to the
Bioblast skill rating plus 5.  This amount can
be increased by one for each shock point
expended.  The blast can be directed from the
hands, eyes, mouth, or chest as the character
chooses initially.

(0/TOU)Enhanced Skeleton:  Characters
skeleton and body structure is unusually
strong and damage resistant.  Character may
use the skill rating instead of his TOU to resist
an attack that does crushing damage.
Otherwise, shock, K's, and O's last half as long.
This skill may be energized.

(0/DEX)Enhanced Refelexes:  Character is
unusually quick and light on his feet.  If he
makes a skill roll, the character may use this
skill instead of Dexterity for purposes of
dodging and avoiding blows.  The difficulty is
10.  This skill may be Energized.

(0/TOU)Armoured Skin:  Characters skin is
unusually tough.  This skill is used instead of
TOU for purposes of damage reduction, but not
for how much shock damage can be withstood.
It can also be rolled for actively (adding
bonus number to its defense, at least +3) but
this option (while not using up an action)
lowers DEX by 3.  It can be Energized.  If the
character possesses both Armoured Skin and
Enhanced Skeleton, the effectiveness of each
is doubled.

(3/DEX)Extra Limbs:  User gains two extra
limbs which have the DEX value of this skill.
They allow one extra attack.  This skill cannot
be energized, but it can be purchased more
than once.  As an option, the extra limbs can
be taken as legs, doubling movement rates,
but denying the extra attacks.  Note that the
possession of extra limbs does not mean
possession of an extra brain, so of the two
action made each round, one (the one from
the extra limbs) must be a simple attack.

(3/TOU)Fast Healer:  User heals quickly.
The user can make a skill roll (even if
unconcious) as if this skill were first aid, to
remove all shock, KO, and stop the bleeding of
a mortal wound.  (That use may not be
Energized while unconcious.)  Additionally,
the character uses this skill for purposes of
how much Shock she can take and all Heal
rolls made are made on this skill and 3 rolls
may be made per day instead of one.

Energy Powers

        These Skills deal with the manipulation of
energy.  Each power acts on a range of
Energies; Bio, light sound, heat, radiation, and
electromagnetic.  These energies are "bought"
just as the skills are.  The adds of an Energy
add in to the Energy Skill for purposes of AV
and EV.

Bio
+8

                       ElectroMag
        Light
                                +3

+0


                             Radiation
Sound
                                    +3*
+3


Heat
                                                                     +5
        The chart shows the various energies and
their bonus to effect values.  Thus, a Mutant
with a Blast of +3(13) and Heat +2(+7 to effect)
would have an effect value of 20 with his heat
blast.  The * by radiation indicates the special
radiation effects which are discussed later.

(0/SPI)Energy Pool:  Character is able to
store energy within himself.  A character is
able to absorb his skill rating (plus energy
adds) in energy that can then be added to the
effect value of any Energy Skill use.  This
skill may not be energized.
        Thus, a character with Pool +3(15) and Bio +2
and Heat +5 would be able to store 15 points of
energy.  Released as Bio, it would count as 17
points.  Released as Heat, it would count as 20
points.  Energy released takes less than a
tenth of a second and so does not count as an
action for a turn.
        ABSORBING ENERGY:  A character must make a
skill roll to absorb energy.  The energy
depends on two factors: the situation, and the
skill roll.  If the character is being attacked
with energy, he can still absorb it to reduce
damage taken, but because of the speed of the
attack, he cannot absorb all of the energy.  He
must make a skill roll (adding in the adds of
the energy he is trying to absorb.)  If the
character is not in combat he can absorb all
the energy directed at him.  In any case, the
character can stop absorbing energy by
making another skill roll (difficulty 3
normally, 8 in combat.)  If a character
absorbs too much energy, nasty things
happen.  The difficulty number of absorbing
the energy is 10.

Roll Result             % Energy Granted*
Minimal           20
Average           30
Good                      50
Superior                  75
Spectacular               100
* Round Down.

        Example: Hansin has Pool +3(15) and Light +2.
An enemy directs a laser at him (damage
number of 17).  Hansin decides he might as
well absorb the energy, he makes his roll (His
skill is 17 because he is absorbing Light) and
gets a Good result.  He absorbs 50% of the
energy, for 8 points.  If he releases it as Light,
it will count as 10 points.  If Hansin had rolled
spectacular, and say the lasers damage value
was 20, then he would not want to absorb 20
points (he can only absorb 20 light) so he
would want to make a roll to stop absorbing
energy.  A character who absorbs too much
energy takes Special Backlash.  (20 + (extra EN
absorbed x Energy adds)).  Also note that
everyone within 1 meter takes this damage
also.

        If a character has Pool he can also release the
energy indiscriminately without directing it.
This has a backlash of 20 and does damage
equal to the energy points released plus the
Energy adds that character has.  All within 1
meter take this damage, plus special effects.
(Ie, light, heat, EM waves, etc.)

(0/TOU)Energy Blast:  Character is able to
blast a bolt of energy.  The damage number is
equal to the skill rating plus the Energy adds,
plus Bonus Number, plus any Energy Pool.
The backlash is 21, minus the skill total.  This
power may be Energized.

(0/SPI)Energy Healing:  Character must
have the Bio Energy ability along with some
other Energy ability.  Character is able to
convert Energy stored from a Energy Pool
into a healing force by molding it into a
special type of Bio Energy.  This Bio Energy
can be used to heal himself or others.  This
power may be energized.

Bio Energy              Heals...*
1                       1 Shock Point
10                      Wound
20                      Heavy Wound
30                      Mortal
50                      Death
*Cannot heal while unconcious or dead.

(0/MIN)Energy Shield:  Character is able
to release and shape energy into a protective
shield for as long as he concentrates or 1
round.  The shield has a TOU equal to this
abilities skill rating with a backlash of 20.
The TOU can be improved by one for every
energy point put into it.

        Example: Rexxus has Shield +1(11) and Light
+2, his shield has a TOU of 13.  Note that any
Bonus number rolled DOES NOT add to this
though it does add to duration.

NOTE: Energy shields are effective ONLY
AGAINST THE SAME TYPE OF ENERGY.  They are
half as effective against another type, and
1/10 as effective against physical attacks.
Note, however, that anyone touching the
shield takes the shields TOU in damage.

(3/SPI)Energy Armour:  Character is able
to form energy into a protective aura.  Unlike
Energy Shields, this DOES protect against
physical attacks at a TOU add of the Energy
adds plus the adds to the skill.  Against Energy
it protects for the full effect value.  Persons
who touch the aura take not damage.  The
backlash is 15.  The aura lasts for a duration
equal to the total adds plus 1 round for every
2 Energy Points expended from the user's
pool.  This power may be Energized.
        Example:  Ijin has Armour of +3(11) and Light
of +2.  He can create a Light aura of +5(13)
that protects +5 versus physical attacks and
+13 versus energy attacks.  The aura will last
for 5 rounds.

(3/MIN)Energy Lance:  Character can
create a scintillating lance-like weapon of
pure energy that does physical damage equal
to the total adds of this skill and the Energy
adds (added to STR score).  Thus, in the
example above, Ijin could create a sword that
does STR+5 damage.  The backlash is 10 and
the duration is considered in hours.

(0/MIN)Energy
Dampening/Generation: Character can
dampen energy in range equal to the adds of
this power by the effect value equal to this
power rating plus the energy adds.  The
character must have the Energy Ability of the
energy he wishes to Dampen.  The other use
allows an increase in ambient energy, which
increases ambient energy by the same
amount.  Ambient energy does not do damage
but can be later absorbed into an energy pool.

Mind Powers

(7/PER)Precognition: Character is able to
divine the future.  On a successful skill roll
the character can do one of three things.  The
success of each depens on the success of the
roll.  The character can divine the success of
a particular action (range into the future is
equal to the characters skill rating.)  The
character can ask three times his adds in yes
or no questions from the GM.  The character
can ask a general question to which the GM
will respond.  Any use has a Backlash of 15.

(5/SPI)Iron Will: A succesful roll allows
the player to resist any attemp to influence
him or control his mind.  It also increases the
difficulty of mind reading attempts by 20.
Additionally, this ability makes the user adept
in such abilities himself, such that he gets his
adds in bonuses to any such attempt.

(5/PER)Empathy: User is able to recieve or
project thoughts or feelings of general intent
in a range equal to the skill total rolled.
Unless a Superior result is gained, such
doings will be extremely general.  The
difficulty is the MIN of the victim.

(10/MIN)Domination: Character is capable
of mind control.  Success in any test attempt
allows the user to attempt this.  Someone who
is dominated will accept simple commands of
the user.  Anyone with sufficent will (9 or
higher) can attempt to break this control by
expending a possibility and making a Test roll
against the mind of the Dominator.
Domination lasts until broken, though the
initial attempt has a Backlash of 10.

(5/MIN)Teleport: Character is able to
instantly move anywhere with in range
(figure a running total for the character's
mind.)  The skill can also be used to travel
long distances or carry passengers, these
factors increase difficulty, backlash, etc. and
their use is up to the GM.  Backlash is 15.

(3/MIN)Illusion Generation:  User can
generate illusions whose effectiveness is
based upon the success of the roll.  See the
discussion of magickal illusions in the
Torg(tm) rulebook for more details.  Basic
Backlash is 16.

(5/SPI)Mind over Body(Body Control):
User has great control over his body
processes.

Difficulty      Effect
                        Backlash*       Duration
10              Take 1/2 Shock and ignore all K
results         18              4 rounds
15              Take 1 less wound and stay
concious even at        21              4 rounds
                mortal wound.
12              Heighten Awareness( add Adds to
Perception)     16              2 rounds
12              Special Push (add adds to PUSH
attempts,       19              3 rounds
                consider 15 as median.
*Backlash not considered until after duration.

        One such action may be taken per round,
though it does not count as the action for that
round.

(3/MIN)Telekinesis: User can manipulate
objects with his mind.  This skill counts as his
DEX and STR.  His "mind" has all of the skill of
his hands.  Duration lasts as long as the user
concentrates.  Backlash is 15.

Miscellaneous Powers

(10/SPI)Reality Generation: User
unconciously generates a personal reality
bubble extending in range equal to the adds
of this power.  (This can be extended through
active use.)  This power, however, cannot be
turned off.  No backlash.  The exact effects are
up to the GM.

(*/SPI)Alter Reality: This skill is intended
for use for NPC's and not for Player Benefit.
In any case, anyone possesing this skill tends
to be insane.  The "cost" is 10, but no other
powers are allowed.  (Usually.)
        User will initially only generate his own
axioms (including his own Everlaws) but he
may pick up other axioms and eeventually
make up his own.  The range of the power is
usually only 3m radius, but the user can
extend this to the skill total of the power (in
value) so it could cover a really wide area.
Because the user generates his own everlaws
he is never subject to contradiction.
However, his everlaws will conflic with
others, so in any PURE area he always causes
a Reality storm.
        This power is the nemesis of Darkness Devices
and High Lords.  If anyone is ever discovered
with it he will be hunted down by ALL High
Lords acting in concert.  It is said that there is
a renegade mutant known as the Fisher King
who has this ability, though he has
dissappeared of the face of Synerstralia...

Choosing Powers

        The use of powers makes Synerstralia Cosm
mutants more powerful than most other
characters from other cosms.  Therefore, it is
important to balance powers properly with
disadvantages so that not all players want to
be Mutants.  On the other hand, super powers
should be considerably more powerful than
the norm, by definition.  Thus, a comprimise
must be struck between game balance and
giving these super "heroes" their edge.

General Limitations

        The basic disadvantage of being a mutant is
twofold.  Firstly, in order to get the
powers there is an adventure cost based upon
that Mutant's POW skill.  The other
disadvantage is the reduced Skill points
available, mutants must spend SK points on
POW in order for their powers to work.
Additionally, the extra skill points to spend on
power are dependant upon the POW skill.  So a
mutant will have significantly less
Possibilities to spend, and less skill points.

        Another major limitation is lack of resources.
All Synerstralian Storm Knights (tm) are
renegades from their culture, and thus will
have little or no resources to draw upon.

        The Law of Indomitable Spirit is also another
disadvantage (though it can be really helpful
too) as any Synerstralian takes a reduction of
twice the cyber value of any cybernetics
directly from his spirit.  (Psychotechnology,
created especially to combat this problem,
subtracts one-fourth its value from the
spirit.)  Additionally, unless the Stormer has
technology of his own, he will tend to
mistrust it.
        The final, and most major, disadvantage, is
that all of the resources of Chairman Trask
will be hunting down the Storm Knights.
Hunter Packs, Augment Commandos, and even
PsiKnights will be sent out to search and
destroy the hapless storm knights.
        So, while Mutants are quite powerful
(especially with access to Psychotechnology),
they have enough problems to make their life
just as harrowing as the other character
types.  Each player considering a Mutant type
should be well aware of all the various
disadvantages.
Synerstralian
Templates

Creating a Template

        Synerstralians are of three types; mutant,
psycofreak, or a mix of the two.  Templates are
given 66 points to spend on attributes, a tag
skill, the Power Skill, and 12 points to spend
on skills.  POW starts at +0, and cannot be more
than 3.  The TAG skill is the only other skill to
be more than 2.

MUTANTS:  For each add placed in the POW, the
template gains 4 points for powers.
PSYCHOFREAKS:  Gain 12 points of
Psychoware.
MIX:  Power Points and Psychoware must add
up to a total of 13.

Powers and Adds Maximums

        Certain powers are allowed to have adds
reaching more than 3 without being a TAG
skill.  These include all Heightened Ability
Powers and any other power that simply adds
to an attribute.  These powers have a base
maximum of 8, plus the characters POW
rating.

Prepared Templates

        In the templates provided below it may seem
that the characters are "cheats", that is, they
appear to violate the Template rules outlined
above.  However, when a given factor exceeds
the allowable, another factor has been
reduced proportionately.


Renegade Mutants

Template: Wildcat  POW:+2  Tag Skill: En.
Reflexes +5  Skill Adds: 11
Skills: charm, persuasion, taunt, beast riding,
dodge, lockpicking, long jumping, manuver,
melee weapons, presdigitation, running,
stealth, unarmed combat, reality, find, first
aid, tracking, trick, survival, artist, test,
climbing, Super Speed +2, Enhanced Skeleton,
Prodigy, armoured skin.
DEX:  12  STR: 9   TOU: 8  PER: 10   MIN: 8   CHA: 9
SPI: 10
Equipment: BioWeapons(Claws)
Notes: You have 2 points to spend on powers.
Your adventure cost is 2.
        You are a tough streetfighte, a thrill seeker,
who though you hate the company, is
interested more in survival than glory.


Template: Energy Avenger  POW:  +3 (12 pts)
Tag Skill: Energy Pool (+5)   Skill Adds: 9
Skills: dodge, energy weapons, fire combat,
manuver, stealth, reality, find, scholar,
science, trick, survival, Light +2, Bio +3, Blast
+3
DEX: 9  STR: 7   TOU: 9   PER: 9   MIN: 10   CHA: 8
SPI: 10
Equipment: none
Notes:  Note reduced attributes.  You gain 8
adds for energy powers and 4 adds anywhere
else.  Your adventure cost is 3.
        You've spent your life using your powers to
hit the company, hit them hard.  Now your on
earth, with new possibilities.  You hope to
develop skills and allies enough to be able to
go back and destroy the Company forever.
        You are quick thinking and have a sardonic
personality.  You are quick to anger and take
vengeance seriously.

Physical Augments

Template: Juggernaut POW: +2  Tag Skill: Super
Stamina (+10)  Skill Adds: 11
Skills: dodge, long jumping, manuver, melee
weapon, heavy weapons, unarmed combat,
intimidation, reality, first aid, land vehicles,
survial, willpower, climbing, Enhanced
Skeleton +2
DEX: 7  STR: 12   TOU: 13   PER: 8   MIN: 7   CHA: 9
SPI: 10
Equipment: Tracer, BioWeapon(Horn)
Notes:  You gain no adds for powers.   You
have no adventure cost.
        You were created to operate under the worst
conditions, a freak made out of the worst of
science.  Now you're free, and woe is anyone
who gets in your way.
        You are stolid and trustworthy though you
don't give your trust easily.  You are
selfconcious about your appearance.

Template: Troglydite    POW: +2  Tag Skill:
Super Strength (+8)  Skill Adds: 10
Skills: dodge, long jumping, manuver, melee
weapon, heavy weapons, unarmed combat,
intimidation, reality, first aid, fire combat,
land vehicles, survial, willpower, climbing,
Enhanced Skeleton +3, ArmourSkin +5
DEX: 7  STR: 12   TOU: 13   PER: 9   MIN: 7   CHA: 7
SPI: 11
Equipment: Tracer, Welding Torch (Range
1/2/3 Dam 18  40 shots)
Notes: You gain no adds for powers.   You have
no adventure cost.
        You were created to operate under the worst
conditions, a freak made out of the worst of
science.  Now you're free, and woe is anyone
who gets in your way.
        You are stolid and trustworthy though you
don't give your trust easily.  You are
selfconcious about your appearance.

Pack Dogs

Template: Pack Hunter  POW: +1  Tag Skill:
Tracking  Skill Adds: 12
Skills: dodge, running, stealth, unarmed
combat, find, survival, climbing, super speed,
extra limbs, armoured skin, reality, taunt,
mellee weapons, fire combat, heightened
senses +2, enhanced skeleton, super stamina,
enhanced reflexes, energy weapons, first aid
DEX: 10  STR: 9  TOU:10   PER: 11  MIN: 8  CHA: 8
SPI: 10
Equipment: BioWeapons(Claws), Biocell,
PsychoImmune, Psychoswitch(Immune),
Pinducer C, Tracer(MinderChip), Beeper,
BioAidPak, NumbJelly
Notes: You have 3 points to spend on powers.
Your adventure cost is 3.

PsiKnights

Template: Fallen Paladin  POW: +2  Tag Skill:
Empathy(+3)  Skill Adds: 10
Skills: faith, test, trick, manuver, persuasion,
dodge, fire combat, melee weapons, unarmed
combat, reality, intimidation, find, first aid,
medicine, survial, heightened IQ, Iron Will,
telekinesis, Illusion gen, bioblast,
precognition, science, scholar, air vehicles,
beast riding, land vehicles, space vehicles,
focus, fire combat.
DEX: 9 STR: 8  TOU:  8 PER:  9 MIN: 10  CHA: 9
SPI: 11
Equipment: Biocell, PsychoImmune,
PsychoProcessor, Psychoswitches,
Beeper(MinderChip), MK-7 Mindwasp gun (w
2 extra magazines), longsword (STR+6),
PsychoMesh Armour, BioAidPak, Numb Jelly,
10,000 credits
Notes: You have 6 points to spend on powers
(or more skills) your adventure cost is 4.
        You were a loyal PsIKnight fighting for what
you were told was the good of all Synerstralia,
but then in the assualt upon earth your mind
cleared.  Now you see the evil of all you had
known.  You have vowed to make up for the
evils of the past and to destroy forever the
company and the terrible evils it wreaks upon
mutantkind.



Using Synerstralia in the
Infiniverse setting


        The Synerstralian cosm has landed in parts of
China and Russia, and is planning to invade
Australia.  Trask has an alliance with
Thratchen but is direct competition with
Kanawa, and indeed would take Japan if tit
were able.  Currently, the mass exodus of
hundreds of its forces who've turned traitor
has been a pressing problem for Trask, who is
expending massive resources to hunt down all
deserters (to the chagrin of the council.)
Synerstralian resources are vast, and they are
just as good at espionage as Kanawa.
Synerstralia could easily overrun the earth if
it weren't so concerned with hunting down
traitors and renegade mutants.
        Kanawa is worsening this condition by
actually providing help to the renegades to
weaken the Synerstralian position.


Final Notes


=============================  CUT HERE ===============================

                                        LOATIWLO,

                                        Phazer Keneticus


