From: daniel.macch@mms.raleigh.nc.us
Reply to: The masterbook mailing list <masterbook@monsta.metronet.com>
Subject: JOKE POCOSM   


Alright folks.  My Transformers cosm has hit a little 
delay so I thought I would give you a little light entertainment. 
To this end I give you the pocket cosm of Winn Dixie. 
(For those of you who don't know, Winn Dixie is a supermarket 
chain in the southern half of the U.S.  The one really good 
thing about it is that it employs me.:) 

You thought you just went to the store? How wrong you are.  When 
you passed through those slow-responding automatic doors you 
entered another reality.  Thats why those doors are so slow, they 
have to surpress the reality storms.  You have entered: 
WINN DIXIE! 

Axioms: 

Tech 22 
        At tech 23 supermarket scanners work perfectly and 
efficently.  They don't in Winn Dixie.  Also electric pallet 
jacks and other conveinences that make working and shopping 
easier are not supported. 

Magic: 3 
        Magic is not a part of Winn Dixie, but there is still 
enough to allow "weird" feelings, de ja vu etc. 

Spirit: 6 
        Again, religion is not important to Winn Dixie.  The 
effects of so many people with faith, (the stores are mainly 
in the Bible Belt) walking through so often cause it to be 
this high. 

Social: 19 
        This one was a toughie.  I estimate that at social 20 
many different portions of one organization can mesh into 
one effective machine.  This does not happen often at Winn 
Dixie.  It is also for this reason that modern politics can 
not be effectively discussed in a Winn Dixie store, except by 
p-rateds. 

WORLD LAWS: 
        The Law of Willing Transformations 

In order to transform to Winn Dixie reality, one must 
willingly accept it.  This does not hold true if someone 
loses a reality storm to a stormer with Winn Dixie reality. 
        If a Stormer accepts WD reality, they do not lose 
any Ps or any reality adds.

        The Law of Incompetence 

        In Winn Dixie Land (they actually do call it this!) 
the most incompetent person tends to rise to the top.  In 
a contest between two people using the same skill, such as 
unarmed combat vs. unarmed combat, the one with the lower 
skill value will temporarily have their skill raised to one 
above their opponent.  This is a passive world law and works 
only in the stores. 
        This law also actively surpresses the actions of those 
who are competent.  In any skill in which a person has a 
value greater than 13, they will suffer a +2 to the DN.  This 
does not effect those who have had their values raised by the 
first half of the world law. 
        Note that the incompetent are rewarded for their 
failures.  Someone who ruins a large number of fried chickens 
and nearly destroys a deep frier will be considered as a good 
candidate for the job of Deli/Bakery manager. 

        The Law of Backstock 

        Every Winn Dixie store has a stock room, known to 
employees as the "back room", which has a chance of having 
any item not in stock in the main store.  Should a character 
look for something in the back room roll a 20 sided die.  On 
a 1 or a 20 it is in stock.  Then roll again, rerolling on 10s 
and 20s.  This second roll is the difficulty number for the 
Find roll to find the item. 
        If a truck arrived earlier that day (they come 3 days 
a week) the odds change.  On any roll that is not a 1 or 20 
the item is in stock.  The difficulty to find it though is 
now set at 20 + a die roll, rolling again on 10s and 20s. 

        The Law of the Pointless 4th World Law 

        This law exists soley to annoy one person.  The effect 
of it is that this one person will be extremely agitated 
if he ever enters a Winn Dixie store 

Other notes: 
Winn Dixie stores are dominant zones. 

Several in conquered areas are thought to be hard points. 




The above is my interpretation of the place I work and other 
stores I have visited. I have not, and will not, accept that 
reality. 

Dan 

"She has all the patience of a boiling tea pot!" 

