Xanth Adaptation

  Before getting onto the actual post itself, I will note that this 
particular version of the Xanth adaptation began a chain of comments that 
ended up being roughly three times the length of the original article. As 
a result of that feedback, any hypothetical revised version would have 
some quite different axioms and fewer world laws. The consensus reached 
was eventually:
M 15     Soc 10     Spi 5     T 12 (natives only bother with 10, but 12 
     is supported for immigrants)
LoPuns
LoXanthianMagic (supports Talents rather than enhancement packages)
Division of Conspiriacies


From student.canberra.edu.au!u921953 Sat Jul 16 20:50:56 1994
Date: Sun, 17 Jul 1994 11:46:28 +1000 (EST)
From: "Brenton / Saxon George (COM)" <u921953@student.canberra.edu.au>
Subject: Xanth v.1 (long)
To: The Black Marble Wombat's cosm <masterbook@speed.intecom.com>
X-bmw: Black Marble Wombat Version 5.0

  Sorry this is a bit late guys, but the U of C is fiddling with
some of the computers, presumably for start of semester 2, and I 
didn't realise that some of the networking facilities were still
operating.

  This is the prelimary game mechanics for the Xanth fringe reality
I promised a week or so ago. A final version (if I get time) would
probably be a bit longer again to allow for descriptions and history,
but most of that can be found in the guides and encyclopaedias to the 
novels, or even the novels themselves, so I'll spare you for now. Any 
constructive comments welcomed.

Saxon Brenton 
-----
  The reality of Xanth is based on the "Magic of Xanth" series of 
fantasy novels by Piers Anthony, and is a fringe reality of Core 
Earth. As a genre, it is humorous fantasy, with a heavy emphasis on 
puns. Xanth is literally made up of puns, which causes the 
environment to be extremely exotic, even by the standards of Aysle. 
By comparison with the highly magical and pun-infested Xanth, 
Core Earth seems rather boring and dreary, so Xanthians refer to 
their parent reality as Mundania and want as little to do with it as 
possible. Xanthians prefer the high magic environment of Aysle 
over that of Mundania, despite the lack of puns in Aysle's reality.
  Xanth is a north-south peninsula of land surrounded by ocean on 
three sides; the northern end is an isthmus that acts as a dimensional 
bridge to Mundania. The dimensional barrier around Xanth is 
attuned to individuals with Xanthian reality, so that it is much easier 
for a Xanthian to exit and then re-enter than it is for anyone else to 
cross over in the first place. The arrival during the Possibility Wars 
of mages from Aysle and Tharkold means possible easier access to 
Xanth for outsiders via use of the Extradimensional Gate spell. On 
the other hand, even after the creation of the Land Above made all of 
Core Earth's fringe realities easier to access, Xanth still cannot be 
reached by outsiders choosing to simply walk across the isthmus. 
GMs should arrange for non-Xanthians to have no chance of 
deliberately crossing the land bridge into Xanth without aid 
(although the GM can always allow people to wander in by 
accident, as is normal for that world).

AXIOMS AND WORLD LAWS
Magic 22     Social 10     Spiritual 2     Technological 12

Magic 22. Xanth has a high Magic axiom, but few people choose to 
study and use magic for casting spells; the only societies that are 
known to have colleges of magic are the demons and possibly the 
knowledgeable centaurs. Other species (including humans) usually 
prefer to make use of the abundant naturally occurring pun-related 
magics, and any innate magical abilities or talents they may possess. 
Thus, although Xanth has a higher Magic axiom than Aysle, it has 
smaller amount of magical research and lore relating to spells. 
  Nevertheless, magic dominates the way Xanthians live. The high 
Magic axiom combines with the Law of Puns to fill the environment 
with pun-related items, and also with the Law of Magic to ensure 
that everyone and everything is in some way magical. Their way of 
thinking is so oriented to magic that they automatically ascribe 
everything to a magical source. This includes phenomena that more 
properly belong under the Technological axiom (e.g., rainbows, 
triangulation, tacking sailboats against the wind, the cube/sqaure 
ratio) or the Social axiom (hitchhiking, rude and insulting guestures, 
etc.).
  At this axiom, alteration processes begin to become easier, making 
all magic slightly easier. Spellcasters gain a bonus of -1 to the DN 
and backlash of their spells.
  The Magic axiom is also high enough for "wish" spells to operate, 
but not for them to be reliable. At this level such spells will 
regularly misinterpret the phrasings of wishes, and in this reality 
such misinterpretations usually take the form of harmless puns. At 
this axiom level very few wish spell should be allowed to function 
exactly as the caster desires, no matter how carefully worded the 
wish - they simply won't work properly. Only in cases where the 
caster achieves a Superior success against the wish's DN should 
anything even remotely like what was desired be given, and even 
then it should be a minimal effect. Because it is easier for an 
inhabitant to use materials existing naturally in the environment to 
achieve what he wants than to waste time with such fickle spells, 
even those cultures that use individually cast spells rather than 
prepared magic items, like the centaurs, haven't bothered to create 
wish spells.

Social 10 The various species in Xanth usually live separately and 
are ruled by different Kings or Queens, although political alliances 
between species are common. In the case of humans the position of 
King is for defensive purposes, with the selection criteria being the 
most powerful magical talent. Individual villages have their own 
Council of Elders or other form of representatives to advise the 
King and handle routine administration (CA, pp. 29-30). 
Conventions that have developed mean that human rulers are always 
titled "King" and the ruler's spouse will always be "Queen", 
regardless of what their actual genders are. The human throne is not 
traditionally hereditary, though lineages, such as the current one, can 
occur (CL, p. 152). Many of the older laws are unwritten 
conventions, but new ones tend to be codified.
  The abundance of naturally occurring items (through the Law of 
Puns) which would otherwise need to be made means that 
manufacturing is on a cottage basis, and the economy is primarily 
self-sufficient, supplemented with barter. There is no use of coinage 
(CA, p. 110) or money generally (TCoHP, p. 207; DDD, p. 154) 
although both are usable concepts. Silver has some worth as a 
medium of exchange, but this is because it is a magical metal that 
can be used for certain magical items, not because it is a "precious 
metal" (ASfC, p. 72). Gold is worthless as currency, (CA, p. 200) 
but is hoarded by the likes of dragons (because they think it looks 
nice) and Mundanians (because they're stupid) (GitG, p. 104). At 
this axiom level libaraies are possible, but tend to be private rather 
than public. The ability to disseminate information, along with the 
use of relatively sophisticated alphabets, supports the publishing of 
books. The Tech axiom is too low for printing presses, but multiple 
copies of pages can be made for binding with the use of copycats.

Spiritual 2. Xanth has little concept of spiritual matters, and no use 
for miracles at all. People are aware of certain spiritual aspects of 
life - such as the existence of souls, life after death, and some are 
even aware of the fact that Xanth owes its existence in its current 
form to X(A/N)th - but they do not think of them from the point of 
view of religion. Thus, although they have some concept of afterlife 
and higher beings, but they aren't silly enough to bother worshipping 
them. Most Xanthians consider such matters as being some type of 
magic, just as they think of everything as magic. In fact, those 
Xanthians who are even aware of the concept of organised religion 
dismiss it as something that only the crazy Mundanians do. People 
who concern themselves with religion are more likely than not to 
have been forced to do so by being bitten by a hera-tic, or perhaps 
stung by a bee-leive from a bee have - the effects of both these 
insects forcing people to temporarily become obsessed with matters 
of faith.
  At this axiom level the invocation of even minor miracles takes a 
lifetime of study and prayer, and the presence of the entire 
community of faithful. No such groups of faithful have been 
documented to exist in Xanth. If some people chose to experiment 
with religion it is unlikely that they could form a large enough group 
to be effective community of faithful, or that in the face of the 
relative abundance of magic in this reality that they would have the 
patience to implement a successful prayer. For instance, healing can 
be gained usually by simply finding an appropriate magical healing 
spring; less commonly healing may be by talents, items, or spells. 
Other "miraculous" effects are similarly replaced with magical 
sources, or done without.

Technological 12. Xanth has a medieval level of technology. There 
is no demand for technological expertise, since there is almost 
nothing that cannot be done by technology that is not possible and 
easier by magic. In most cases the staples of life (whether goods or 
services) can be gained simply by harvesting items off trees or 
otherwise from the wild; others can be gained by someone in the 
community, either currently or in the past, having a talent for 
creating some needed item; or more rarely because someone in the 
community has bothered to learn how to cast "standard" spells. 
Moreover, Xanthians think of everything in terms of magic. Those 
that know enough about Mundania tend to think of science as a 
stunted and deformed type of magic (HC, p. 221). Quite a number of 
items exist that seem to exceed the Tech axiom, such as bullets, 
spectacles, glass mirrors, clocks, microscopes, matches, and the 
sentient machine Com-Pewter. These items, however, are actually 
magically created and powered analogues to technological things.
  The Tech axiom is nevertheless occasionally used by new 
colonists from Mundania, who during the first few generations in 
Xanth often rely on skills, such as blacksmithing. Eventually, 
however, they settle down to use the magical talents and items of the 
reality to their full potential, and come to rely less and less on the 
Tech axiom. For instance, even fire is less often used; few things 
need cooking, and anything needing cooking or reheating can have 
firewater poured over it, (CR, p. 153) or be placed on a hotseat.

Law of Puns
  The high Magic axiom of Xanth combines with this world law to 
permeate the entire reality with puns, and to a certain extent 
influence how people think as well. This does not mean that people 
go around speaking in puns (although that can happen). Instead, 
almost all things and creatures operate according to the twisted 
logic of double meanings; "Everything in Xanth makes sense, for 
those with the wit to fathom it" (CA, p. 56). The landscape is 
littered with creatures, items and situations that are puns. It's as if 
the entire fringe reality is one big in-joke that someone has to get 
only by recognising the puns. It has even been suggested that puns 
are the fundamental building blocks of Xanth (NM, 93).
  It is this world law that provides the various useful food and item 
producing plants and animals that people and animals live on: 
pillow bushes, pie trees, sugar sand, milkweed pods, spectacles 
bushes, bed bugs, tent catapillars, etc.; as well as many of the 
dangers: bumble bees, curse burrs, midas flies, torment pines, loan 
sharks, etc.
  The Law of Puns also creates puzzles and challenges, as well as 
affecting how people usually try to deal with them. There is a 
preference intellectual or diplomatical solutions, and these types of 
solutions gain a +3 modifier. Often they are puzzles of some type, 
and so have to be solved intellectually. Violent solutions are not 
penalised with combat modifiers, but people use them as a last 
resort since non-violence means they often have more chance of 
success.
  Despit the low Spiritual axiom souls do exist, and are subject to an 
interesting effect. They can be divided in half, and eventually these 
halves will regenerate into whole souls if left to heal in a living 
being normally capable of possessing a soul (OO, p. 267). The 
regenerative capacilty of souls is how babies gain their own - they 
gain half from their mother (VotV, p. 249).

Law of Observation
  This world law functions as described in the Aysle sourcebook. 
That which can be observed is real. This is particularly so 
considering that much of Xanth's reality is illusion; "In Xanth, things 
were mostly what they seemed to be, so that illusion was often 
reality" (OO, p. 42), "Much of Xanth is illusion... The rest is puns 
and dragons." (DDD, p. 206).

Law of Magic
  This law is similar in most respects to the Law of Magic in Aysle. 
Magic is real, even though it cannot be observed by the usual 
senses. Xanth supports higher attribute limits than many other 
realities (Dex 14, Str 15, Tou 15, Per 14, Min 14, Cha 13, Spi 13), 
and many creatures are so inherently magical as to be able to use 
magical enhancement packages.
  A major difference between these two versions of this law is that 
whereas Ayslish Folk gain one magical skill and one arcane 
knowledge at birth, Xanthian Folk gain an innate magical ability 
known as a talent. It is believed that the possession of a talent is 
linked to the possession of a soul (VGtX, p. 32). Species of human 
descent count as being capable of possessing souls, and therefore of 
having talents, but within this restruction there seems to be no set 
pattern, so that souls and talents do not always manifest. Nymphs 
and fauns have neither, for example. The categories can even change 
over time: "Some magically spawned races, such as centaurs, have 
been established for so long that they have become a natural race, 
and so have developed their own individual talents." (VGtX, p. 32), 
while others like the naga hope one day to reach the point where 
they will gain talents (MfM, p. 194). The theory is that some species 
_are_ magic, and gain magical abilities that are common to all 
members of the species, while others _do_ magic, and have 
individuall talents.
  Talents come in three levels of power: spot-on-the-wall talents, 
what will here be called intermediate talents, and Magician level 
talents. Spot-on-the-wall talents usually cost nothing to have since 
they are generally useless, for instance changing the colour of a 
pebble, or wilting a single leaf. Intermediate talents are more 
powerful, and can be simulated by the automatic use of effects from 
spells, miracles, psionics or pulp powers. A combination of 
lowering the effect value of the talent and/or other constraints could 
be applied to keep some of the more combat oriented effects from 
getting out of control. Magician level talents are the most powerful. 
On the surface many of them may seem less potent than many powers 
or spells that Storm Knights have access to. However, a key feature 
of Magician level talents is that they have wide ranging 
ramifications beyond what others can hope to counter (DoaP, p. 97; 
GitG, p. 98). In game terms not only should they have high effect 
values to their abilities and few, if any, drawbacks, but the 
profoundness of their talents should be reflected in "freebie" effects 
related to the primary concept of the talent. For instance, a normal 
person who could summon a storm would only be able to summon 
one type, but the Magician Storm King could summon up any type 
(as well as make them larger, last longer, and do more damage). 
Thus, while most people (Storm Knights included) have their 
abilities limited to a specific effect, Magicians' talents may consist 
of a parcel of interrelated abilities based on the same theme that 
greatly increase their versatility. It may also be necessary to make 
all Magicians possibility-rated (which would explain why there 
have only ever been a few of them). Naturally, Magicians should not 
be available as PCs.
  Intermediate talents and Magician level talents have to be paid for 
in one of two ways: either accept a permanent limitation on one 
attribute to 7; or pay an adventure cost in possibilities, the exact 
cost of which depends on the talent (make comparisons with Nile 
pulp powers). The adventure cost of Magician level talents is a 
token only. They are supported primarily by the Law of Magic itself, 
and so the adventure cost does not need to be commensurate with the 
power of the talent. 
  For the most part each talent is unique, although there are 
exceptions: the group powers of the Curse Friends, and the 
complementary half talents of the harpies and goblins should be 
noted. Additionally, the similarities between the finding talent of 
Crombie, Sammy, and Alister, has led to speculation that talents 
might repeat occasionally, but that it is the way they work that is 
unique (TCoHP, pp. 147-145). Magical talents require both a Magic 
axiom of 12 and the Law of Magic to maintain without 
contradiction.
  Additionally, the Law of Magic causes new species to be brought 
into existence in amazingly short periods of time through changes 
made to existing species. There are two ways this can happen. 
  The first is that some of an established species can mutate over 
only a few generation as its offspring become increasingly more 
magical. This is a type of evolution that occurs much more rapidly 
than in Mundania, and has little to do with Darwinian selection. 
Thus, human stock has diversified into various humanoids, including 
giants, ogres, elves, gnomes, nymphs, and fauns; cats into felinoids 
like cat o' nine tails, catatonics, catapults, copycats, picklepusses, 
scaredycats, etc.; horses into equines like night and day mares, 
unicorns, etc.
  The second means of magical evolution is that of crossbreeding 
two species (no matter how dissimilar) to create a viable new one. 
Normally creatures of different species cannot interbreed to produce 
offspring, and many that can only produce infertile mules. In Xanth 
this restriction does not apply; any creature can crossbreed with any 
other creature (whether animal or plant) to produce fertile 
descendants, allowing for xenogenesis - a creature resulting from 
two different types of parents. Such creatures include beings that 
would be considered half-folk in Aysle (centaurs, naga, harpies, 
minotaurs (the cow-pokes)) or monsters elsewhere (for example, 
Xanthian vampires are human-bat hybrids, not undead). Further 
crossbreeding may take place, leading to the likes of winged 
centaurs, hippogryphs, chimera, and manticores. It should be noted 
that often xenogenesis is not a result of conscious choice by the 
parents, but rather a result of them drinking at a love spring, which 
causes instant carnal desire for the first creature of the opposite sex 
that the drinker sees.
  The continual dilution of original species, whether from mutation 
or crossbreeding, is part of the reason why the Waves are so 
important. The Waves are usually composed of a destructive army 
of invaders from Mundania who so disrupt society as to throw 
Xanth into periodic Dark Ages. They are nevertheless needed to 
occasionally supply new blood from Mundania (DDD, p. 161).
  The Law of Magic not only infuses not only all living creatures 
with some form of magic, but also the inanimate as well; 
"Everything is magic in Xanth" (DDD, p. 204). This gives objects 
and features of the lanscape a rudimentary awareness, and accounts 
for their ability to occasionally be perversely stubborn in trying to 
provoke the animate (DoaP, p. 23). They can also use their own 
magic, such as with the river that replenishes its fish population by 
transforming any creature that comes in touch with it, or Lookout 
Roc's attempts to avoid being quarried by making itself into a useful 
observation points (ASfC, pp. 2-3).

Law of Obligations
  This law dictates that people will be either Honourable or 
Corrupt, using the definitions for those two moral positions that 
exist in Aysle. However, Xanthian Honour and Corruption do not 
exist in a spectrum as they do in Aysle, where people may gain or 
lose Honour and Corruption adds to move out from morally neutral 
to become increasingly more Honourable or Corrupt. Instead, Xanth 
uses a moral absolutism reminiscent of the Good and Evil 
Inclination of the Law of Morality of the pulp realities of Terra and 
the Nile Empire. People are therefore either Honourable or Corrupt 
- there is no in-between state. The relative proportion of 
Honourable and Corrupt people is much the same as Terra's - 
roughly 90% to 10% respectively. This balance is apparently 
mainatined by the delivery of bad dreams sent from the dream world 
in the Gourd and delivered by the nightmares; "If no one ever 
suffered the pangs of conscience or regret, evil would prosper 
without hinderance and eventually take over the world... The bad 
dreams are realisations of the consequences of evil, a timely 
warning that all creatures require" (OO, p. 258).
  The Law of Obligations gives Xanthians abilities corresponding to 
the Inclination Detection and Inclination Seduction of the pulp 
realities, but not the Honour and Corruption abilities of Aysle. The 
pulp realities' Price of Evil is also applicable in Xanth. Xanthians 
who travel to realities where moral stance is relevant will gain 
theses abilities as (and if) appropriate. Note that Xanthians are 
considered to fall at the 12 add "Honourable" and "Corrupt" 
positions on the world law scales when in Aysle, much as pulp 
characters do.
  GMs may choose to have Xanthians act either Honourably or 
Corruptly in accordance with the Ayslish model. However, in the 
novels Xanthians' approach to morality tend to be far more extreme. 
As an alternative, a purist GM may wish to use the following 
guidelines for how characters should act.
  This world law causes beings to feel obliged to honour their 
agreements. For example, when Grey Murphy became trapped in the 
scheme of the then evil Com-Pewter, he was honour-bound to serve 
the machine because of a deal made by his parents before he was 
born, putting Com-Pewter in a position being close to, if not 
actually, in control of Xanth. The option of simply repudiating the 
obligation because he had not made it himself, or ignoring it because 
Com-Pewter couldn't physically leave its cave, or even accepting 
Queen Irene's offer to have a sphinx "accidentally" step on Com-
Pewter and destroy it, were not considered. Grey insisted on 
dealing with the problem himself, and in the "right" way, even at the 
cost of potentially going into exile from Xanth and losing his 
fiancee.
  A person who wants to do right will either honour all agreements 
made, no matter how distasteful the deal is, or will not make the 
deal in the first place. No matter how bad the situation. Honourable 
people will not make a deal that they do not intend to keep, or break 
an agreement if it later turns sour.
  Someone who breaks an agreement cannot rationalise or justify it, 
even to himself. People may renege on agreements, but in doing so 
they are in the wrong, know they are in the wrong, and suffer the 
penalties of this world law. It is the nature of this world law that 
people who regularly break commitments will grow bitter at the self 
knowledge of their own evil, and feel compelled to regularly break 
all agreements to match it as well as acting corruptly in general. 
Good and honourable people will feel ill at ease with themselves 
for breaking agreements, and if they wish to continue to keep their 
self-respect and the respect of others will try to honour all 
commitments.

Division of Conspiracies
  This world law divides the population up along ageist and sexist 
lines: into either the Adult Conspiracy or the Juvenile Conspiracy, 
and into either the Female Conspiracy or the Male Conspiracy.
  From the novels the best known of these is the Adult Conspiracy. 
All adults are automatically part of this group. The age of 
adultdhood varies between species. In humans it is 16ish. The 
hallmark of the Adult Conspiracy is that all members will act in a 
mature and responsible manner, at least as long as children are 
around who need to have an example set for them. Adults are 
expected to make sure that children eat their greens, avoid sweets, 
take caster oil when sick, brush their teeth, have early bedtimes, do 
their homework, and stay out of mischief (CL, p. 287). Among many 
others. Moreover, no adult is allowed to tell a child about sex (HC, 
p. 45)(or summoning the stork as it is called, which is not an 
euphemism in Xanth), nor use bad language in a child's presence 
(QQ, p. 308; TCoHP, p. 78). Attempts to explain sex to minors are 
negated, as are sexual expletives. This may involve the offending 
adult suddenly going hoarse, or an event occurring that distracts the 
participants. An adult who is treading close to the limits of what can 
be talked about may get a warning of distant thunder (QQ, p. 213). It 
is even possible that the words will be dubbed out so that no sound 
emerges, although this type of censoring must be accompanied by 
smoke from the censors of passing censorships. It is known that if by 
happenstance children do learn forbidden knowledge the effect of 
the Conspiracy may drive them insane (TCoHP, p. 189). A benefit 
of belonging to the Adult Conspiracy is the ability to use an Adult 
Stare at members of the Juvenile Conspiracy (TCoHP, p. 70; QQ, p. 
16). This gives a +3 bonus to Intimidation attempts, and allows the 
adult to force the child to do what he is told (for his own good, of 
course).
  Opposing the Adult Conspiracy is the Juvenile Conspiracy, 
consisting of all children and teenagers who are underage. The 
hallmark of this conspiracy is that its members are innocent and 
carefree, and enjoy life because they are not yet burdened with the 
responsibilities of adulthood (HC, p. 210. The members of the 
Juvenile Conspiracy instinctively feel the need to do such things as 
not eat their vegetables, not to go to be early, and to get into 
mischief (DoaP, p. 105). Children are also fascinated by the 
prospect of finding out how to summon the stork, and thus bypass 
adults when it comes to having babies. The children are unlikely to 
ever unlock this secret, however, since members of the Juvenile 
Conspiracy are repelled by romance, kissing, and the other "mushy 
stuff" integral to summoning the stork. The members of the Juvenile 
Conspiracy gain the ability of the Innocent Look, whereby they can 
gain a +3 modifier to Persuasion attempts against people belonging 
to the Adult Conspiracy by looking innocent, waif-like, and put 
upon.
  All females belong to the Female Conspiracy, which asserts that 
while men may have the brute strength to be in nominal control, 
women are smarter and should manipulate the situation from behind 
the scenes so that they can prevent any calamities that the men would 
otherwise blunder into (DoaP, p. 4).
  The final conspiracy is the Male Conspiracy, which strictly 
speaking doesn't exist. Whereas females tend to form together as a 
united group to manipulate the males, the males have not formed 
their own comparable grouping. Thus, they are easy prey for any 
woman who wants to hog-tie them into marriage: "The boys were 
then either too stupid or too embarrassed to acknowledge the 
situation, so they ignored it. They did not even tell each other. That 
was the universal way of it. Everyone knew all about it, except the 
men, and of course no woman would tell. It was the mirror of the 
Adult Conspiracy, only in this case the victims did not know it 
existed until it was too late" (HC, p. 191). Of course, men are not 
totally helpless, since the Male and Female Conspiracies have an 
identical game mechanic. Members of both groups get a +1 bonus to 
attempts to Charm members of the opposite sex (MfM, pp. 41-42). If 
the person doing the Charming has a high Charisma (11 or greater) 
then the bonus increases to +3. This accounts for the way most 
women can manipulate men, while truly beautiful women can cause 
them to become incoherent (especially if they show their panties 
(IoV, p. 66; TCoHP, p. 143)). The Female Conspiracy, as an 
organised group, has mastered various ways to use this bonus, 
including That Tone (QQ, p. 18), while men, who are not part of an 
informed group on this matter, can only rely on their instinctive use 
of their bonus to keep the females off-guard (NM, p. 297).

                                Publishing details of
Code   Book                     edition I've used     Copyright
ASfC   A Spell for Chameleon    Futura, 1984          1977
SoM    Source of Magic          Futura, 1984          1979
CR     Castle Roogna            Futura, 1984          1979
CA     Centaur Aisle            Futura, 1984          1981
OO     Ogre, Ogre               Futura, 1984          1982
NM     Night Mare               Futura, 1984          1982
DoaP   Dragon on a Pedestal     Futura, 1984          1983
CL     Crewel Lye               Futura, 1985          1985
GitG   Golem in the Gears       Futura, 1986          1986
VotV   Vale of the Vole     New English Libaray 1989  1989
HC     Heaven Cent              Avon, 1988            1988
MfM    Man from Mundania        Avon, 1989            1989
IoV    Isle of View             Avon, 1990            1990
QQ     Question Quest           Avon, 1991            1991
TCoHP  The Colour of Her Panties Avon, 1992           1992
DDD    Demons Don't Dream       Avon, 1993            1993
HT     Harpy Thyme         New English Library, 1993  1993
VGtX   Visual Guide to Xanth    Avon, 1989            1989 

-----
Saxon Brenton
University of Canberra
Canberra, Australia
